                [Home](/)
                        Calendar
                        AGM Information
                        Booking Interpreters
                        Interpreter Training Programs
                        ASL Classes
                        Trained Interpreters vs Signing EAs
                        Awards
                        Board
                    Board of Directors
                                  Meaghan Gessner
                                  /
                                  President
                                  / 2021-2025
                                  [[email protected]](/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection)
                                  Erica Trethart
                                  V
                                  ice President
                                  / 2022-2025
                                  Monica Furer
                                  Treasurer
                                  / 2017 - 2025
                                  I am currently in my fourth term and final year as Treasurer of MAVLI and have enjoyed working on the board. I graduated from the combined RRC/UofM AEIP in 2005. I work primarily in the post-secondary setting, but also do some free-lance and pro-bono interpretation in the general community.
                                  Miranda Murphy
                                  Secretary
                                  2022-2025
                                  Hello everyone! I graduated in 2021 from the final four-year AEIP joint program between RRC and U of M. It has been a pleasure working in K-12, faith based, and in the community. I love being able to connect with the Deaf and Interpreting community at different events hosted throughout the year!
                                  I am enjoying my new role as Secretary of MAVLI. Previously, I have been on the board as Public Relations as well as AEIP student representative. Outside of work, I enjoy spending time at the lake, and travelling to new destinations.
                                  I look forward to seeing you around!
                                  ​
                                    Shaina Dumont
                                    / Membership / 2024-2025
                                  This will be my 4th term on the MAVLI board in the Membership position. After graduating in 2011 I worked as a contractor for ECCOE for one year where I was then hired as a staff interpreter and have been ever since. I enjoy being on the board where I can learn from colleagues and provide insight where I can.
                                  When I’m not running my kids around to activities, I spend a lot of my free time with them and my husband on our farm raising cattle.
                                  Vacant
                                  Fundraising
                                  Nikki Jeanson
                                  Professional Development
                                  2023 - 2025
                                  Hi! I am excited to be joining the MAVLI Board with my Co-Chair Meg Toews. I graduated from the 4-year joint interpreting program between the University of Manitoba and Red River College in 2021. Since I graduated I have worked in a variety of setting within the community. I enjoy spending time in the garden, crafting, and visiting with friends and family. I look forward to connecting with you all soon.
                                    Meg Toews
                                  2023 - 2024
                                  Hi there,
                                  I graduated in 2022 from the ASL- English Interpretation Program and have enjoyed being involved in faith-based, performing arts, community and VRS interpreting.
                                  I have been married for 6 years and enjoy traveling with my partner to find new places in Manitoba to go kayaking. Outside of work I love to be at home knitting, playing ukulele, or reading a good book with a London Fog in hand.
                                  I am thrilled to be on the board with my incredible friends and colleagues, Sheryl and Dawn-Marie, as we get to think of new topics to discuss with the amazing interpreters in our community. I love being able to share strategies, ask questions, and learn from each other in such a safe and inviting space.
                                  I am looking forward to another great year on the board!
                                  Joa Brunstein
                                  Public Relations
                                  2024-2025
                                  Hello!
                                    MAVLI
                                    Board and I am very excited to be a part of this incredible organization and working alongside talented and amazing interpreters!
                                  Jenn Horvath
                                  Member at Large
                                  I graduated in 2003 from the first four year AEIP at Red River College/University of Manitoba. I have always enjoyed my time on the MAVLI board as a few different positions over the years. I primarily work in post secondary and freelance in the community.
                                  I have been married for 15 years and have two daughters, ages 8 and 12 who keep us very busy!
                                  It’s been almost 20 years, and I still love interpreting thanks to our amazing colleagues and Deaf community.
                                  Kristen Starr
                                  MAVLI Education Committee
                                  / 2023-2025
                                  ​I have been an interpreter for 3 years. I graduated from the 4-year joint interpreting program between the University of Manitoba and Red River College in 2020. Since I graduated I have been working in the K-12 setting. I also work part time doing VRS work. I am excited to be on the board with my co-chair Shannon. Looking forward to the MAVLI MTS PD day this year!
                                  I recently got married in the summer of 2023. My husband and I enjoy traveling. I also love to crochet and spend as much time outside as possibly enjoying warm weather.
                                  Thanks,
                                    Shannon Graham
                                  Amar Schiwietz
                                  / Digital Media Coordinator / 2023-2025
              Powered by
                Create your own unique website with customizable templates.
                  Get Started