              [Home](/)
              [About us](/about-us)
              [What We Do](/what-we-do)
            We left the UAE to work deeply with Generative AI in the heart of Silicon Valley, even before the release of ChatGPT. We worked with and built a team of people on the cutting edge, driving forward AI innovation.
            We want to bring this innovation back home to the UAE to turbocharge the economy.
              Partnered with experts from
                  Vedant Khanna
                  Cofounder
                Grew up in Abu Dhabi, studied Maths & Physics at Stanford, built an AI real estate agent and raised several million dollars, and now bringing AI to back home to the UAE.
                  Abdulla Kuleib
                Emirati on a Presidential Scholarship studying Applied Mathematics and Computer Science at UCSD, doing AI research on emergent properties of large neural networks under the distinguished Mathematical Neuroscience Lab.
                  Khalid Kuleib
                  Strategic Advisor
                Led the research, development, digital and technology piloting function as CTO at ADNOC, managing a $2 billion portfolio of new and innovative technologies in the oil and gas operation.
                  Prof. Chaithanya Bandi
                  Research Lead: Reasoning
                Professor at Northwestern University, PhD from MIT, ex Microsoft Research. Working on routing between finetuned language models for enterprises.
                  Dr. Hari Charan Reddy
                  Project Lead: Agents
                PhD from MIT, built an autonomous AI data science agent being used by top healthcare firms like Mayo Clinic and Emory Healthcare.
                  Daniel Chang
                  Project Lead: Data & Fine-tuning
                Post-training for Databricks' DBRX-Instruct, a state of the art Mixture of Experts language model. Databricks' AI platform is used by 50% of the Fortune 500.
            Our Locations
                  Abu Dhabi
                    United Arab Emirates
                    •
                    Middle East
                  Address
                  Obaid Al Muhairi Building, Falah Street, Office MI
                  Stanford
                    California
                    USA
                  459 Lagunita Dr, Palo Alto
                  Contact Us
                    Email :
                    contact@algoro.ai
              [About Us](/about-us)