          [Home](/)
          About Us
              [Leadership](/leadership)
              [Programs](/programs)
              [Board of Advisors](/advisors)
              [Alumni](/alumni)
          Our Teams
              [Alumni Engagement](/professional-dev)
              [Challenge](/challenge)
              [Core](/core)
              [Fundraising](/fundraising)
              [Growth](/growth)
              [Hackspace](/hackspace)
              [Marketing](/marketing)
              [Social Impact](/social-impact)
              [Startup Development](/startup-dev)
          [Sponsors](/sponsor)
          [Join BASES](/join)
          style below blocks out the mobile nav toggle only when nav is loaded
          BASES Leadership
                      “
                      Our mission is to inspire Stanford students to become entrepreneurial leaders and innovative thinkers on-campus and beyond.
                      ”
                    — BASES Presidents
                    Executive Team 2024-25
                              Shreya Joshi is a rising junior studying Economics and CS. She currently serves as the Co-President of BASES and has been involved with the organization since her freshman year. Though Shreya joined BASES for a deeper connection to the entrepreneurship community at Stanford, she stayed involved because of her love for the friends she found through BASES. Her past experiences include working as a Research Assistant at the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, interning at Chicago's premier economic development agency, and delivering a TED Talk! In her free time, she loves reading, watching sitcoms, and hanging out with friends.
                          Shreya Joshi
                              Hey Everyone! Prakeerthi here. I am a junior studying MS&E. I joined BASES not to be cliché..., but for the incredible community! BASES truly consists of some of the brightest minds, most supportive and helpful people, and it’s a lot of fun! BASES is truly one of a kind, and the experience here is different from any club I have engaged with on campus.
                          Prakeerthi K
                              I am Sumedha I'm a sophomore planning to major in computer science or MS&E. I joined BASES because I loved the community of friends I found through Frosh Batallion and Hacker Hours. I love being in BASES because it's a way to get everyone involved in entrepreneurship and the start-up community!
                          Sumedha Kethini
                          VP of Growth
                              I'm a sophomore studying EE/CS — I'm most passionate about robotics, AI hardware, and machine learning. I joined BASES to immerse myself in its community of like-minded, passionate entrepreneurs who want to make their difference in the world. My favorite part about BASES has been getting to know the leadership team through club meetings and meals together — everyone comes from such diverse backgrounds and has cool stories to tell!
                          Aarav Wattal
                          VP of Alumni Engagement
                              Hi! I'm Prady and studying Math and Computer Science as a sophomore. Joined BASES because of the amazing network of resources and the people. My favorite part about BASES—the same very people!
                          Prady Saligram
                              My name is Commy and I'm a sophomore studying computer science. I'd heard about BASES and its 100k startup challenge even before I came to Stanford, so there was no question in trying to join as a freshman. My favorite part of BASES has easily been the emphasis on building a tight-knit community through social events. It makes club meetings and work a lot more fun knowing you're doing it with a group a friends.
                          Commy Alizadeh
                              I'm a Sophomore studying Computer Science and Economics. I joined BASES to step outside of my comfort zone and explore my interests in the innovative and unpredictable world of entrepreneurship and VC. BASES leadership has always been welcoming and inclusive from the moment I met them, which inspired me to become a part of this amazing team.
                          Reilly McKnight
                              Hi, I'm Shrish! I am a rising Junior studying CS. I had joined BASES because I want to learn more about entrepreneurship and solving real-world problems. I feel that BASES is the perfect gateway to explore new things with people who have such varied and amazing backgrounds. If you haven't realized, the best part for me is definitely our community from the members to founders to VCs who I have learned so much from!
                          Shrish Janarthanan
                              Hi! I’m Amber, a junior studying Management Science & Engineering and Data Science. I’m interested in the intersection between strategy management, tech entrepreneurship, and social impact. My favorite part of BASES is definitely the people and the close knit community!
                          Amber Kwok
                          VP of Fundraising
                              Hi, I am Hannah Lee, a rising senior and coterm student majoring in Economics and MS&E. I decided to join BASES because I was eager to immerse myself in a community that fosters an entrepreneurial spirit and encourages innovative thinking. The energy and passion within BASES are truly inspiring. My favorite part about being in BASES is the close-knit community where everyone is incredibly supportive and collaborative. Whether we're brainstorming startup ideas, attending workshops, or just hanging out, the shared energy makes every moment memorable!
                          Hannah Lee
                          VP of Marketing
                              Juan Pablo is a Computer Science and Product Design junior who founded an NPO expanding to approximately 20 countries. After increasing the NPO’s membership by more than 4,900%, Juan Pablo now serves as VP of Alumni Engagement for BASES. He joined the organization because he wants to eventually found a mental health startup. Juan Pablo’s favorite part of BASES is the vibrant community. You can contact him at pacheco7@stanford.edu.
                          Juan Pablo Pacheco
                              My name is Adarsh Sairam Ambati, a rising junior at Stanford University. I am studying Mathematics and Computer Science with an emphasis on Computational Theory and Artificial Intelligence. As a part of the inaugural Hackspace team, I joined BASES to help build a space run by and for fellow builders and entrepreneurs, and I am so excited to be able to lead the Hackspace initiative this year. My favorite part of being in BASES is being able to connect Stanford students that are actively working on cutting-edge projects and technology with the funding and guidance resources available through the BASES network.
                          Adarsh Sairam Ambati
                              My name is Jonathan and I'm a Sophomore at Stanford studying Management Science and Engineering. I joined BASES because I was excited about the opportunity to engage with the vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem at Stanford and to contribute to fostering innovation on campus. My favorite part about being in BASES is organizing events that bring together passionate individuals from diverse backgrounds, creating an environment where ideas can flourish and meaningful connections can be made. It's incredibly rewarding to see the impact of these events on the community and to be part of such an inspiring organization.
                          Jonathan Tyshler
                          VP of Core
                              Hey! I am a rising sophomore majoring in either Computer Science or Electrical Engineering with a focus in AI (particularly its applications to neuroscience!) and minoring in Classics. I joined BASES to delve deeper into the fascinating mechanics of the business world and engage in insightful conversations with incredibly interesting people. My favorite part of being in BASES is the opportunity to meet globally renowned leaders in their respective industries, hear about their journeys, and learn what drives them.
                          Maya Bridgman
                              I am a rising senior studying Symbolic Systems and Computer Science. I joined BASES in my first year because I dreamed of founding a company and didn’t know a thing about entrepreneurship. Over the last several years in this organization, I’ve met and worked with some incredible people, maybe of whom I now call my friends. Those people are what make this organization so special to me. I can’t wait to see what’s in store for us this year!
                          Justin Blumencranz
                              I'm Antonio, and I'm VP of Growth for BASES. I'm probably going to major in computer science and am a sophomore. I joined bases because I've been fascinated by the asymmetric upside of entrepreneurship since middle school, and I wanted to surround myself with people that had a similar entrepreneurial mindset. My favorite part about being in BASES is the friends I've made.
                          Antonio Alonso-Stepanov
                              My name's Sehrish Gohar, and I am the Vice President for Marketing at BASES. What I love about BASES is the positive drive for innovation, growth, and community building. It truly fosters an environment conducive to learning, and making lifelong friendships. I thoroughly enjoy being a part of this vibrant community on campus, and experiencing ideas come to life!
                          Sehrish Gohar
                              Sophia Rebolledo is a junior majoring in Economics and Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies. Her favorite part of BASES is the friendships and mentors gained. Collaborating with peers passionate about social impact and innovation has been incredibly inspiring and rewarding. Dedicated to breaking traditional boundaries, she has the opportunity to blend entrepreneurship with a deep commitment to social impact and feminism, crafting an ethos that not only innovates but also empowers and transforms. Her experiences span economics research and policy, financial markets, visual arts, and gender equity and justice projects. In her free time, she loves running, cooking, making jewelry, spending time with friends, and reading sci-fi novels.
                          Sophia Rebolledo
                          VP of Social Impact
                              I'm a rising junior, '26, studying Computer Science with AI track. I joined BASES because of the fun activities organized by frosh battalion and the chance to meet new people. I have made a lot of friends at BASES and found peers who are creative and ambitious.
                          Aliyan Ishfaq
                          VP of Challenge
                              Heyy! I’m Vivian, studying CS and Product Design. I joined BASES because I am excited about entrepreneurship and meeting new people and learning what makes them excited! My favorite part about BASES is definitely the mentors and friends that I have met so far. They are all super driven and talented. I am grateful to be part of this community :)
                          Vivian Zhou
                    If you have questions about BASES, please contact
                      (sjoshi4@stanford.edu) and
                      (shrishj@stanford.edu), our 2024-25 BASES Presidents.
                    Membership
                    The BASES family also comprises over 70 directors and hundreds of general members, all of whom are integral to making our initiatives possible. Looking to join? Learn more at
                      [our](http://bases.stanford.edu/join)
                        page
                      !
                    Made with love by BASES
                    Copyright © 2023. Business Association of Stanford Entrepreneurial Students.