                  Tally.AI
              Where research pushes the
                frontier
              Tally.AI empowers research with AI-Driven aggregation and analysis of scientific papers.
                  [Sign Up for the Waitlist](https://forms.gle/BmV22ytinQ17DKgG8)
                    ->
              Where Artificial Intelligence Enhances Research
                Similarity Scores
                Calculate similarity scores with your current work and compare it to other works that are newly published.
                Knowledge Graphs
                Generate knowledge graphs that allow insights into other relevant papers within the field.
                Real-Time Alerts
                Receive real time alerts as when new research out of other labs and research groups directly links to your work.
              Explore Your Field Niche with the latest in Retrieval-Augmented Generation tools
                Tally.AI combines LLM's with the latest technologies within the RAG space to give your personalized insights into your work.
                  One Platform, Endless Possibilities
                  Tally.AI provides a host of benefits to researchers.
                      Prevent Duplicative Efforts
                      Enhance Collaboration Between Research Groups
                      Stay Up-To-Date with the Latest Works within your Field
              Founded by a Team of Industry Experts
                  George Cheng is an AI researcher and undergraduate at MIT, engaged in projects at various labs such as the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research and MIT Sloan School of Management.
                  George Cheng
                  Dylan Nguyen is an undergraduate studying mathematics and computer science at MIT. His past research experience includes work at the Max Planck Florida Institute for Neuroscience and at the MIT Myerson Research Group.
                  Dylan Nguyen
                  Yimeng Li is a Wharton MBA and Harvard MPA candidate with a background as an ex-Citi investment banker. A graduate from Tsinghua University, his past work focused in natural language processing and data science.
                  Yimeng Li
                  Ziping Ye is currently an Applied Scientist Intern at Amazon, while also pursuing a masters in computer science at the University of Pennsylvania. His work at Amazon and his research specialize in the development of Large Language Models and graph technologies.
                  Ziping Ye
                Get started with Tally.AI
                See why top researchers around the world trust our product
                [Sign Up for Early Access](https://forms.gle/BmV22ytinQ17DKgG8)
        © 2024 Tally.AI