        [Accessibility statement](/accessibility/)
            Democracy Dies in Darkness
            Advertisement
                Andrew Ba Tran
              Washington, D.C.
              Data reporter on the rapid-response investigative team
              Education: University of Texas, BA in government and philosophy
                Andrew Ba Tran is an investigative data reporter. Before the Post, he worked with data at The Connecticut Mirror and The Boston Globe. He has worked in newsrooms at the Virginian-Pilot and the South Florida Sun-Sentinel. He’s a Metpro Fellow and a Chips Quinn Scholar.
                Read more
                email
                twitter
                rss
              Share confidential news tips with The Post
            Latest from
                    Musk’s DOGE says it has saved $55 billion. Not so fast.
                  A Washington Post analysis found that hundreds of the canceled contracts DOGE listed represent savings of $0 each.
                  February 22, 2025
                    3D analysis shows how helicopter pilots could have mixed up jets in DCA crash
                  From the perspective of the helicopter cockpit, the lights of the incoming American Airlines jet could have also been obscured by the glow of the city skyline, pilots said.
                  February 14, 2025
                    Pilots got 100 collision warnings for helicopters near National in past decade
                  Cockpit warnings logged by air traffic controllers show a record of persistent collision risks near Reagan National Airport years before January’s deadly plane crash.
                  February 13, 2025
                    Trump wants to substantially cut the federal workforce. Here’s what it looks like.
                  While federal hiring has increased in recent years, federal workers, as a share of all American workers, remains at a historic low.
                  February 12, 2025
                    Approach for Reagan National’s Runway 33 is within feet of helicopter corridor
                  A Washington Post analysis of FAA maps shows the proximity of the flight path to tthe helicopter crossing.
                  February 4, 2025
                    How many federal workers will be affected by Trump’s return-to-office policy?
                  See agency by agency, the more than one million federal workers who could be affected.
                  January 29, 2025
                    Rent rose by 20 percent across L.A. County after fires. That’s illegal.
                  Rent for single-family homes across Los Angeles County rose by almost 25 percent, and even more in certain areas, according to a Washington Post analysis.
                  January 25, 2025
                    More than 3,100 students died at schools built to crush Native American cultures
                  The Post’s year-long investigation found that three times as many Native American students had died at boarding schools between 1828 and 1970 as the U.S. government had previously reported.
                  December 22, 2024
                    What we know about the Smithsonian’s human remains
                  The Smithsonian’s human brains were taken mostly from Black and Indigenous people and other people of color. Read key findings from The Post’s investigation.
                  December 15, 2023
                    Search the Smithsonian’s records on human remains
                  The Smithsonian holds over 30,700 human remains, but never released a full inventory. The Post offers a starting point to learn more about the collection.
              Load more
            [washingtonpost.com](https://www.washingtonpost.com/)
            © 1996-2025 The Washington Post
      Google Tag Manager (noscript)
      End Google Tag Manager (noscript)