  Google Tag Manager (noscript)
  End Google Tag Manager (noscript)
                        Professors
                    cancel
                    at
                    Log In
                    Sign Up
                Help
                      Catherine
                        Sociology
                        ·
                        [Rutgers - State University of New Jersey](/school/825)
                        [Rate](/add/professor-rating/758736)
                        [Compare](/compare/professors/758736)
                    3.1
                    / 5
                    Jump To Ratings
                  Overall Quality Based on
                  Professor in the
                  36%
                  Would take again
                  Level of Difficulty
                I'm Professor
                Professor
                  Get ready to read
                  Amazing lectures
                  Tough grader
                  Skip class? You won't pass.
                  Clear grading criteria
                  Rating Distribution
                        Awesome
                        5
                        21
                        Great
                        4
                        23
                        Good
                        3
                        11
                        OK
                        2
                        17
                        Awful
                        1
                        15
                Similar Professors
                      5.00
                      Kevin Dahaghi
                      Molly Stinchfield
                      Rina  Bliss
              87
                        All courses
                          Jan 16th, 2025
                              Quality
                              3.0
                              Difficulty
                            For Credit
                              Yes
                            Grade
                              B+
                            Textbook
                              N/A
                          Middle of the road professor. Hard to get a good grade but hard to fail as well. Weekly readings that are long and a weekly quiz that isn't too hard if you did the reading. Final paper is weighted way too high so if you get anything lower than an A you'll probably end with lower than an A for your final grade.
                            Lots of homework
                                  Helpful
                                0
                          Jan 10th, 2025
                              1.0
                              4.0
                          First asynch class that I took at Rutgers that I really disliked. Felt like I was honestly putting more effort into this class sometimes than my STEM classes because of her grading. She was also really behind on grading and her prompts were worded so weirdly / awkwardly. Lowk passive aggressive and not super helpful when you need help.
                          Jan 6th, 2025
                            Online Class
                          one word: bombast
                          Jan 4th, 2025
                          honestly one of my least favorite professors at rutgers. try not to take her if you can
                          terrible and annoying
                          her prompts and the way she words things are rlly, let's just say interesting... I feel like she wants to sound smart?? lol. Honestly you gotta decipher what she's trying to say bec of her diction. gets really passive agressive, not helpful, repeats herself a lot in her lecture videos, always behind on grading, not an easy A whatsoever
                            Attendance
                              Not Mandatory
                          Not a a helpful or caring professor and she words things in a really confusing manner a lot of the times and stutters a lot in her lecture videos which is kinda funny actually. Would not recommend taking this class. Not that many assignments so your grade is really dependent on her discussion post and one essay grade and she grades tough. annoying.
                          Grades hard, always says you're not using enough outside resources when I incorporated multiple. Ended up putting a lot of effort into an asynch class (scared I wasn't going to end with an A). Made us have a meeting about our essay with her AFTER we submitted which made 0 sense because it's submitted..what is the point..you can't fix it anymore.
                            Graded by few things
                          Jan 17th, 2023
                              Mandatory
                              B
                          Professor Lee assigns long readings each week for class, if you can complete these long readings and be heavily engaged in the long lectures you will be fine in her class. However at times her lectures can get boring so beware of that. Tests were ten questions and were not hard if you did all the readings and paid attention to the long lectures.
                            Lecture heavy
                          Nov 16th, 2022
                          At first she seemed okay, but she is often upset at the grades my class as a whole are getting. She also gives quizzes that have very very similar answer choices. And takes a while to grade. She seems like a good person, but not my favorite prof.
                          Nov 8th, 2022
                              2.0
                              Not sure yet
                          If there's other professors, take those instead. She is not like the reviews. She is a tough grader and didn't grade anything until after the drop period. There is no extra credit and no understanding from her if you have a medical emergency. She seems nice, but then turns very passive aggressive. Very vague with wording on assignments & everything
                          Nov 4th, 2022
                              5.0
                          I'm not sure what changed with her, but she's not like the reviews anymore. She assigns a lot of reading per week and expects you to cite a good majority of them in discussions and essays. Her midterm essay question was very vague with unclear grading criteria. Also super behind in grading so no one knows where they stand.
                          Dec 13th, 2021
                            Would Take Again
                              A+
                              No
                          I took this class async, the easiest A ever. I put her lectures on every Friday night as a podcast while cleaning my dorm. The weekly quizzes are very easy, 3-4 multiple choice questions based on the lecture. The writing prompts are very confusing though, repetitive and say the same thing but she says they are "different". But she grades lightly.
                          Jan 14th, 2021
                              A
                          She's a little awkward but definitely an amazing professor and Minority Groups in American Society is so cool. Prof. Lee definitely pays attention so don't try to use your phone but she also cares about her students and let us out early sometimes. Her tests are tricky but if you pay attention you'll be fine and you don't need to do the readings.
                          Dec 8th, 2020
                          she's so understanding if you fall behind or need extra help and she makes it clear that she cares about your mental health. there's a short quiz every week that's easy as long as you watch the lecture. she assigns long readings but i didn't read any of them and did fine. pretty easy course and i learned a lot, i'd def recommend!
                            Accessible outside class
                            Caring
                          May 7th, 2020
                          Professor Lee is very kind and understanding. Class isn't hard but if you don't watch the lectures it's not as interesting. Never did the readings but that didn't effect my performance.
                          Jan 14th, 2020
                          One of my favorite professors. Took time out to meet with us in groups outside of class to get to know us. As long as you pay attention in lecture and study it is an easy A.
                            Participation matters
                          Dec 18th, 2018
                          Get ready to read sometimes 30 page articles for a mere one question on a quiz or exam. The setup of the course honestly isn't really fair and not only that but it sounds like an interesting class upon taking it. Well take the class and youll see how interesting it is.
                            LOTS OF HOMEWORK
                          Dec 17th, 2018
                          Professor assigns a lot of readings and you must read and memorize for exams. Exam questions are not always straight forward, and during lectures she can get off topic and it is very confusing.
                            Tough Grader
                            TEST HEAVY
                          Nov 15th, 2018
                          She's a good person who is very passionate about what she teaches, but the amount of readings you have to do each week is overwhelming. If I weren't taking any classes but this one it'd be fine but obviously I am taking other classes so I don't have enough time to read everything. Definitely not an easy A class.
                Load More Ratings
              [Site Guidelines](/guidelines)
              [Terms & Conditions](/terms-of-use)
              [Privacy Policy](/privacy)
              [Copyright Compliance Policy](/copyright)
              [CA Notice at Collection](/privacy#sectionp10)
              [CA Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information](/ccpa)
                ©