              [About](/about)
              [Team](/team)
              [Alumni](/alumni)
              [Companies](/companies)
              [Opportunities](/opportunities)
              [Blog](https://blog.dormroomfund.com/)
              [Apply for Funding](/apply)
            The Student Partnership
            Our Team
            We're builders, tinkerers, technical nerds, and so much more. We eat, breathe, and sleep startups and venture. And we're the next generation of this industry.
              DRF Co.
              Dorm Room Fund's full-time investment team who run the fund and student program
                  Madi Jacox
                  Columbia University
                  Principal. Formerly founding team at Sidebar, investor and chief of staff at Hangar.
                  Molly Fowler
                  Yale University
                  General Partner, Dorm Room Fund, First Round Capital, Intersection, City of Los Angeles.
              Investment
              Our student investment partners seek out, vet, and back the best student-run companies across the country -- don’t hesitate to get in touch.
              All
              Boston & Northeast
              SF & West Coast
              Philly & Southeast
              NYC & Midwest
                  Sofia Cagliero
                  Harvard
                  Sofia is a senior at Harvard College studying Applied Mathematics and Economics with a strong passion for supporting student entrepreneurship.
                  Jo Cheng
                  Wharton
                  Community builder, dedicated to expanding quality access to women's health.
                  Danny Delaney
                  Harvard (HBS)
                  Passionate about building healthy, affordable, clean communities. Runs on PB&J.
                  Kyle Dolce
                  Pumped up about a modern industry renaissance! Runs, bikes, and swims a lot.
                  Vishal Dubey
                  Founder/Engineer who's passionate about Consumer and FinTech, prev YC S21
                  Lindsay Esterman
                  Emory
                  Lower the world’s cortisol. Past lives: engineering @ Neo, Tara AI, Shimmer.
                  Zaid Fattah
                  Zaid is interested in software and systems but motivated by stories and service.
                  Jack Flintoft
                  University of Chicago
                  Australian curious about trends, but driven by founders who create them.
                  Jessica Gartenstein
                  Stanford GSB
                  I am an entrepreneur who started a health food company in college and have grown passionate about healthy eating, supply chain management, ethical business practices, and supporting female founders.
                  Elana Golub
                  MIT Sloan
                  Operator passionate about innovation in fintech, education, and professional services.
                  Remy Gordon
                  Energized by working through difficult problems with smart people. Will inevitably talk about his love for the midwest!
                  Jules Grelot
                  Northeastern University
                  Avid learner! Sharing passion and love! Always happy to meet new people!
                  Linda He
                  building and investing in technology that changes the world :)
                  Ben Horwitz
                  Excited about passionate builders, great design, and complex problems. Bonus if it's all three.
                  Momoko Ishii
                  An alchemist who makes transformative solutions for a sustainable future
                  Aryan Jain
                  MIT
                  I'm a founder and builder who’s passionate about LLM’s, AI, and Deep Tech. Always down to meet new people!
                  Advika Jayanti
                  Carnegie Mellon University
                  Exploring the frontiers of technology and creativity!
                  Edward Jin
                  UC San Diego
                  Startup lover interested in aerospace, energy, and manufacturing—driven by a passion for soccer and building community.
                  Rohan Kalahasty
                  CalTech
                  Bringing startup style agility to science/R&D.
                  Jeff Kaminsky
                  NYU Stern
                  SF Native. NYU Gallatin and Stern MBA. Lover of all things food, tech, and startups.
                  Eyrin Kim
                  Stanford
                  Obsessed with solutions at the climate-technology nexus and deeply curious about the people who drive them.
                  Jacob Kopelman
                  University of Pennsylvania
                  I am an incredibly passionate and driven individual, always eager to dive into new opportunities with energy and focus.
                  Elijah Kurien
                  University of Waterloo
                  Elijah is a software engineer with extensive background in AI, hardware and biology looking to apply his breadth of knowledge to solving problems at the intersection of these fields.
                  Jacques Laine
                  Jacques is a musical artist and strategist looking to change the face of the music industry through emerging technology.
                  Tony Liano
                  University of Notre Dame
                  San Francisco native interested in storytelling and consumer behavior.
                  Brielee Lu
                  Pure extrovert in the pursuit of infinite learning processes; people over everything.
                  Anna Marie Manning
                  Anna Marie is passionate about combining her background in biology and entrepreneurship to drive innovation in and around healthcare and the life sciences.
                  Sriya Mantena
                  Energized by deep tech solutions that prioritize human outcomes and responsible impact.
                  Ian McCreadie
                  Georgetown
                  Accelerating thoughtfully. Interested in hardtech, industrials, biosensing, and good stories.
                  Tafarii McKenie
                  Operator passionate about CPG and the intersection of beauty, health, and wellness. Ask me for product recs, I've tried everything!
                  Catherine Mekhael
                  University of Michigan Stephen M. Ross School of Business
                  true extrovert with boundless curiosity, passionate about tackling challenges in healthcare
                  Adanna Mogbo
                  Constant learner and try-er of all things related to health and innovation.
                  Anisha Musti
                  UNC
                  Committed to creating positive change. Exploring deeptech, logistics, QC, and meaningful connections.
                  Sean Nissenbaum
                  Learning and building towards a more meaningfully connected future; chocolate chip cookie connoisseur.
                  Ben O'Keefe
                  A nerd that loves learning.
                  Aaron Pickard
                  Chicago Booth
                  Loves solving hard problems that make a difference, building communities, and supporting nontraditional students. It’s not rocket science!
                  Shasi Pinninti
                  UC Berkeley, UC Berkeley Haas
                  Hardware builder and investor with a passion for complex, NP hard problems
                  Nithanth Ram
                  Master of None - always seeking growth and learning. Currently at Deepgram. Formerly Baseten, Abacus.AI, Roku. Building HostLabs.
                  Marc Rizk
                  Passionate about the intersection of finance and Deep tech.
                  Matan Roet
                  Tech head with AI and cloud expertise, crazy about sports and snowboarding!
                  Catalina Romero
                  A Colombian-American MIT Mechanical Engineering student in love with ultramarathon running, soccer, traveling, and building cool things!
                  Aryan Shah
                  Emory, Georgia Institute of Technology
                  Exploring all things Fintech, Deeptech and Enterprise :)
                  Om Shastri
                  A seeker of knowledge, weaving dreams with code and creativity.
                  Hriday Sheth
                  UC Berkeley
                  Hriday is a former startup founder and Berkeley Engineering Junior who is interested in software, transportation, and technology in emerging markets.
                  Tony Shi
                  Stanford GSB, Stanford
                  Investor and ex-founder with the mission to empower responsible innovation and bold ambitions in a rapidly evolving world.
                  Nimisha Shinday
                  Passionate about driving positive change at the intersection of tech, consumer and wellness.
                  Rishi Sriram
                  The University of Texas at Austin
                  A guy who loves to be creative, work with numbers, and make impactful change.
                  Zachary Swidey
                  Motivated by conceptual elegance. Exploring deeptech, AI/ML, and abstract nonsense. Biotech VC at Pillar.
                  Edgar Sze
                  Passionate about people, health, tech, and all things in between. Aspiring master chef and lifelong learner!
                  Eugenia Trakal
                  Arizona State University
                  Energized by hustlers bridging gaps and building across B2B SaaS, FinTech & cross-border ventures.
                  Angela Tsao
                  Researcher driven to go deep in the data
                  Omo Tseumah
                  Columbia Business School
                  Ex-Googler, lover of sweet treats. Passionate about health, somatic wellness and all things beauty, CPG, B2B SaaS & consumer tech.
                  Kieran Velasquez
                  Michigan State University
                  Fascinated by innovation through atoms accelerated by bits ushering in the next industrial revolution
                  Ananth Veluvali
                  I'm a Stanford sophomore and aspiring lifelong entrepreneur with several exits.
                  Matthew Vine
                  Lehigh IBE, Columbia MBA interested in deeptech and working at the nexus of emerging technology and corporate innovation. LGM.
                  Katie Xu
                  Duke
                  Storyteller at heart, with a love for building brands and empowering entrepreneurs to chase their dreams.
                  Oliver Ye
                  interested in fast things and making things faster :)
                  Linda Zhou
                  Yale School of Management
                  Community-focused operator and utility player. Striving to be open, curious, and unafraid– and looking for founders who are too.
                  Kevin Zhu
                  Builder and investor passionate about AI and LLMs. Love learning and meeting new people!
                  Caroline Zhu
                  Cornell
                  empowering creators to make magic through tech. lifelong magic-seeker!
              HQ
              Our operators-in-residence support our investment partners and founders alike with strategic, technical, and operational expertise.
                  Aaron Anandji
                  McGill
                  Aaron is a self-proclaimed startup nerd based in Montréal. He tweets about VC & startups on X at @aaronanandji.
                  Austin Ho
                  Passionate about building consumer products that influence culture
                  Arshia Narula
                  Arshia is a hands-on learner, global thinker, and innovative designer passionate about user-centered solutions and blending entrepreneurial experiences with creativity and strategy.
                  Michael Zhang
                  Officially, I build AI products that help people nationwide; less officially, I brew coffee, snap photos, and play basketball.
          Super Secret Content
          Stay up to date with DRF news, job openings, invite-only events, expert takes on entrepreneurship, and opportunities to get involved.
              [Press Kit](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/13kIXHJjCRs5nfrqiww5aq_e0mzrJOY6J)
              [Twitter](https://twitter.com/DormRoomFund)
              [Legal](https://dormroomfund.com/privacy)
          © Dorm Room Fund