            0
          Background
            Social
            Title and nav wrapper
              Title
                  [George Cheng](/)
              Nav
                      [Home](/)
                      [Research](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=nU2wGKIAAAAJ&hl=en)
                      [Projects](/projects)
            Actions
                [Contact Me](mailto:gcheng713@gmail.com?)
            Burger
                Open Menu
                Close Menu
      (Mobile) Menu Navigation
                Menu Navigation
                            HERa
                            is an
                            all-in-one tech platform
                            designed to empower underprivileged women with access to safe and legal abortion services. By integrating resources like
                            location-based clinic finders
                            ,
                            telemedicine consultations
                            , and
                            confidential support networks
                            , HERa ensures that critical healthcare is accessible and discreet.
                            VocAlarm
                          VocAlarm is a
                            Speech-to-Speech (STS)
                            powered motivational alarm clock that seamlessly integrates with your Google Calendar, helping you wake up with purpose by aligning your wake-up call to your meetings, tasks, and personal goals.
                          Customize your morning motivation with the voices of iconic figures like Yoda or Muhammad Ali to jumpstart your day.
                          Our team was selected as a finalist in the
                              MIT AI Hackathon
                            . We traveled to NYC to present VocAlarm, where we earned $5,000 in
                            OpenAI credits
                            .
                            Tally.AI
                            is an AI tool to help researchers identify
                            emerging studies and competing work
                            from other researchers. Our team (
                            Dylan, Yimeng, Ziping, and I
                            ) will be releasing an MVP for beta testing in early
                            February
                            . Sign up on our waitlist
                              here
                            Forever
                            utlizes cutting-edge AI technologies such as API-pulling, MLLMs, AutoGPT, Stable Diffusion, and Generative AI to create an avatar that accurately mimics the likeness of real people.
                          Our research offers
                            proof-of-concept
                            , with simulations demonstrating
                            lifelike interactions
                            for applications like virtual companionship and communication with lost loved ones.
                          Forever was recognized as
                            “Best Idea”
                            and
                            “Best Project”
                            at the Westlake University AI Open Course Project Showcase.
                            DiaMiR
                            uses recent advances in microRNA technology and microneedles to mitigate the adverse effects of Type-2 Diabetes (T2D). My research provides
                            proof-of-concept, in-vitro, and in-vivo studies
                            for developing a
                            cost-effective and accessible product
                            to treat T2D.
                          DiaMiR offers the following advantages:
                            1)
                            addressing the underlying biological mechanism of insulin insensitivity;
                            2)
                            increase in cost-effectiveness of T2D treatments: DiaMiR costs
                            $3 per day
                            vs. insulin-based treatments that cost
                            $40-50 per day
                            ; and
                            3)
                            increasing patient compliance and privacy: DiaMiR can be concealed like a
                            “bio-tattoo”
                          My nonprofit,
                              STEMable
                            , encouraged children with T2D to use scientific research as a positive outlet.
                          My work is also being recognized by
                              my community and school.
                            FloodGate
                            is a revolutionary web-based application employing advanced computational models to predict flood patterns. Utilizing geographic elevation data, FloodGate generates
                            accurate, interactive 3D flood models
                            . The model uses mathematical models using
                              Wolfram | Alpha
                            cellular automatas
                            that display data for water flow and accumulation of water.
                          FloodGate helps alert communities in advance, enabling the protection of critical infrastructure, and providing
                            accessible, accurate
                            information to aid efficient relief operations. In addition, being recognized as an
                              Earth Prize Winner
                            FloodGate hopes to mitigate the environmental impacts of
                              erosion, pollution, and overall harm to wildlife.
                            O.M.G.
                            Oral-fluid Monitoring of Glucose (OMG)
                            revolutionizes glucose monitoring by offering a noninvasive Bluetooth-enabled alternative using affordable materials to make a
                            wearable watch
                          Through extensive testing, including
                            commercial, ex-vivo, and in-vivo methods
                            , OMG demonstrated accuracy and reliability compared to traditional monitoring methods. This device's noninvasiveness, portability, and cost-effectiveness highlight its potential to transform diabetes management, providing a
                            practical and innovative solution for millions.
                          Recognized by the
                              Department of Defense
                            and the
                              Congressional App Challenge
                            , OMG hopes to be commercialized and leased to
                            millions of T2D patients.
                            PuriScan
                          The
                            app
                            500x cheaper
                            than commercial options and
                            750x faster
                            than laboratory testing.
                          PuriScan can rapidly assess the contents of water samples in
                            less than
                            10 seconds,
                            costing only
                            20 cents each.
                        gjcheng [at] mit [dot] edu