    Enrico Fermi: An Architect of the Atomic Age
    Kushal Thaman
    Submitted as coursework for
      [PH241](..)
      ,
          Stanford University, Winter 2024
  Introduction
          Fig. 1:
          Enrico Fermi in 1943. (Source:
          [Wikimedia
        Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Enrico_Fermi_1943-49_140x190.jpg)
          )
  Enrico Fermi (1901-1954) was an Italian (and later 
Italian-American) physicist known for his tremendous contributions to 
the development of nuclear reactors, quantum theory, statistical 
mechanics and particle physics, and perhaps most notably for his leading 
role in developing the atomic bomb during the Manhattan Project. [1]
  Early Life and Education
  From an early age, Fermi displayed a strong aptitude 
for physics and mathematics. His profound interest led him to self-study 
advanced topics in physics. In what is a notable anecdote, at age 12, 
Fermi had mastered projective geometry. His early accomplishments as an 
autodidact earned him a scholarship to study at the Scuola Normale 
Superiore in Pisa, Italy, where he graduated with a doctorate in physics 
in 1922, at a young age of 21. His graduate thesis on X-rays reflected a 
striking and unique approach to problem-solving that would go on to 
characterize his later work. He continued on to study at the University 
of Göttingen, University of Rome at Leyden and the University of 
Florence after. [2]
  Scientific Accomplishments
  Fermi's early work in theoretical physics positioned 
him as a leading figure in the field. His most notable early 
contribution to quantum statistics was the formulation of the 
Fermi-Dirac statistics, which described the behavior of particles known 
as fermions (named after him). [1] After this work with Paul Dirac in 
1926, Fermi published the 'theory of beta decay' in 1934, providing the 
first quantitative description of the weak force, one of the four 
fundamental forces. This work introduced the concept of weak interaction 
and explained how beta particles emit from heavy nuclei. His scientific 
accomplishments of demonstrating the existence of new radioactive 
elements produced by neutron irradiation and for his discovery of 
nuclear reactions brought about by slow neutron won him a Nobel Prize in 
Physics in 1938. At this time, due to anti-semitic efforts, Fermi 
emigrated to the United States from Italy and naturalized as an American 
citizen. While at the Los Alamos Laboratory during the second World War, 
Fermi observed the Trinity test as he conducted an experiment to 
estimate the bomb's yield by placing paper strips into the blast wave. 
He paced off the distance while the explosion was underway to see how 
much the strips were blown away by the explosion's blast wave, and found 
the yield to be roughly 10 kilotons of TNT; the actual yield was roughly 
18.6 kilotons. [3]
  Legacy and Contributions
  Fermi-Dirac statistics laid the groundwork for the 
field of quantum physics and continues to be influential in various 
applications, such as the development of semiconductors and digital 
electronics. After World War II, he helped establish the Institute for 
Nuclear Studies at Chicago, and served on the General Advisory 
Committee, advising the Atomic Energy Commission on national nuclear 
matters. In his final years, Fermi became strongly opposed to the 
development of a hydrogen bomb due to moral reasons. [2] In 1954, he 
died of inoperable stomach cancer which may have started due to working 
near the nuclear pile. His early death was a shock to the whole 
scientific community. He has been given numerous posthumous recognitions 
the element fermium was named after him, and so were Fermilab and the 
Fermi award, celebrating his enduring influence on the scientific 
community. [2]
  © Kushal Thaman.  The author warrants that 
the work is the author's own and that Stanford University provided no 
input other than typesetting and referencing guidelines. The author 
grants permission to copy, distribute and display this work in unaltered 
form, with attribution to the author, for noncommercial purposes only.  
All other rights, including commercial rights, are reserved to the 
author.
  References
  [1] E. H. Cone, "Enrico Fermi," Am. Sci.
    38
    , 
442 (1950).
  [2] D. Cooper,
    Enrico Fermi: And the Revolutions 
of Modern Physics
    (Oxford University Press, 1999).
  [3] L. Fermi,
    Atoms in the Family: My Life with 
Enrico Fermi
    (University of Chicago Press, 1994).