                  [Events](https://strumandiodine.com/events/)
                  [Podcasts](https://strumandiodine.com/podcasts/)
                  [Articles](https://strumandiodine.com/articles/)
                  Artists
                      [Local](https://strumandiodine.com/artists/local/)
                      [International](https://strumandiodine.com/artists/international/)
                  [Information](https://strumandiodine.com/information/)
                Toggle Menu
          AUDREY CHEN
                    [Web](https://www.audreychen.com/)
                    [Bandcamp](https://audreychen.bandcamp.com/)
                    [Soundcloud](https://soundcloud.com/audreychen)
                    [Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/audreyisabelchen/)
                AUDREY CHEN is a 2nd generation Chinese/Taiwanese-American musician who was born into a family of material scientists, doctors and engineers, outside of Chicago in 1976. Parting ways with the family convention, she turned to the cello at age 8 and voice at 11. After years of classical and conservatory training in both instruments, with a resulting specialization in early and new music, she parted ways again in 2003 to begin new negotiations with sound in order to discover a more individually honest aesthetic. Since then, using the voice, cello and analog electronics, Chen’s work delves deeply into her own version of narrative and non-linear storytelling. A large component of her music is improvised, is completely un-processed and her approach to this is extremely personal and visceral. Her playing explores the combination and layering of an analog synthesizer, preparations and traditional and extended techniques in both the voice and cello. She works to join these elements into a singular ecstatic personal language.
                For nearly two decades, her predominant focus has been her solo work with the voice, cello and electronics, but she has more recently, in the last six years, begun to shift back towards the exploration of the voice as a primary instrument. Aside from her solo concerts, Chen performs currently in her longest running duo project since 2005 with Phil Minton; as BEAM SPLITTER with trombonist Henrik Munkeby Nørstebø; as MOPCUT with Lukas Koenig and Julien Desprez; in duo with electronic music artist Kaffe Matthews; and as a duo for voice/live digital process with Mexican sound artist Hugo Esquinca.
                Among her more recent album releases include, “By the Stream” with Phil Minton – Subrosa (Brussels), “Hiss & Viscera” with Richard Scott – Sound Anatomy (Berlin), “Rough Tongue”, BEAM SPLITTER’S debut LP – Corvo Records (Berlin) and latest “Split Jaw” on Tripticks Tapes (US), her solo album “Runt Vigor” – Karl Records (Berlin) and two records with MOPCUT, “Accelerated Frames of Reference” – Trost (AT) and “Jitter”, A split release on Opal Tapes (UK) and Ventil Records (AT). C
                hen has performed across Europe, Russia, Ukraine, Turkey, Australia, New Zealand, China, Japan, Taiwan, Brazil, Argentina, Ecuador, Canada and the USA. Some festival appearances include: Festival Beyond Innocence (Osaka, JP), Maerzmusik (Berlin, DE), Klangspuren Festival (Schwaz, AT), NUMA Circuit (Tenerife, ES), Sound of Stockholm (Stockholm, SE), Jazz Saalfelden (Saalfelden, AT), Plateaux Festival (Torun, PL), Color Out of Space (Brighton, UK), Wels Music Unlimited (Wels, AT), 2PI Festival (Hangzhou, CN), Jazz a Luz (Luz-Saint-Saveur, FR), Festival Muzzix (Lille, FR), La Voix est Libre (Toulouse/Paris, FR), Total Meeting (Tours, FR), Now Now Festival (Sydney, AU), Uncool Festival (Poschiavo, CH), the Next Festival (Bratislava, SK), Colour Out of Space (Brighton, UK), Donau Festival (Krems, AT), Musique Actuelle de Victoriaville/FIMAV (CA), Festival Ecuatoriano de Música Contemporánea (Quito,Ecuador), Elevate Festival (Graz, AT), Ear We Are (Biel, CH), Meteo Festival (Mulhouse, FR), Angelica Festival (Bologna, IT), Wiener Festwochen (Vienna, AT) and Wien Modern (Vienna, AT). And venues such as: Covent Garden (London, UK), Radialsystem (Berlin, DE), Zacheta National Gallery (Warsaw, PL), Museé du quai Branly (Paris, FR), Radio France (Paris, FR), Theatre Bouffes du Nord (Paris, FR), Auditorio de Tenerife (Tenerife, ES), Teatro Colon (Buenos Aires, AR), Bimhuis, (Amsterdam, NL), Rote Fabrik (Zurich, CH), Teatro Fondamenta Nuove (Venice, IT), DOM (Moscow, RU), Anton Kern Gallery (NYC, US), Wiener Konzerthaus (Vienna, AT), Lille Opera (Lille, FR) and Robert Wilson’s Watermill Center (Water Mill, NY, US). Since 2011, she relocated to Berlin, Germany from Baltimore, MD USA and continues to maintain an active international touring schedule.
                “…mining material in between – and beyond – previous utterance. Finding sound via microtones of larynx squeak, blowing wind turbulence with lip-flip flutters, and plumming the corporeal with full throated phonation” – Tim Leanse UPEND LA 2020
                “Singing with Audrey is like working with all the possible noises of the universe and beyond, earthquakes, colliding galaxies and slugs sliding down a wet window, very quiet.”  – Phil Minton, Minton at 80, The Wire Magazine December 2020 “Audrey Chen has created an uncompromising and idiosyncratic music, tightly disciplined yet acoustically wild and heavy with implication. Her ultra-verbal vocalising, often reminiscent of the visceral and emotionally charged sound poetry of François Dufréne or Henri Chopin, exposes physiological aspects of utterance that are concealed within standardised articulation and day to day speech. Fleshy, breath-driven and flecked with spittle, Chen’s voice emanates not just from her mouth but from an ensemble of upper body surfaces, channels, passages, and cavities.” – Julien Cowley THE WIRE
                        22.02.2024
                        SONIC AGENCY – AUDREY CHEN
                        SONIC AGENCY – LISTENING SESSION I
                  Subscribe to our newsletter
                      Submit
                Chimpmatic extension by Renzo Johnson
                      [Privacy Policy](https://strumandiodine.com/privacy-policy/)
                      [Legal Notice](https://strumandiodine.com/imprint/)
                    [Facebook](https://www.facebook.com/strumandiodine/)
                    [Twitter](https://twitter.com/strumaiodine)
                  Supported by
                  © 2021 Struma+IODINE. All Rights Reserved
    googleoff: all
          We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.
      Manage consent
            Close
                    Privacy Overview
                      This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
                        Necessary
                      Always Enabled
                        Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
                                Cookie
                                Duration
                                Description
                                cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics
                                11 months
                                This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
                                cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional
                                The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
                                cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary
                                This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
                                cookielawinfo-checkbox-others
                                This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
                                cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance
                                This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
                                viewed_cookie_policy
                                The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
                          Functional
                        Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
                          Performance
                        Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
                          Analytics
                        Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
                          Advertisement
                        Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
                          Others
                        Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
    googleon: all