    The Future of Magnetic Confinement Fusion
    Kushal Thaman
    Submitted as coursework for
      [PH241](..)
      ,
          Stanford University, Winter 2024
  Introduction
          Fig. 1:
          Basic components of the toroidal 
            tokamak. [3] (Source:
          [Wikimedia
            Commons](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Schematic-of-a-tokamak-chamber-and-magnetic-profile.jpg)
          )
  For several decades, humanity has been on a quest for 
a clean, sustainable energy source, promising to harness the same 
processes that power stars namely, nuclear fusion. At a high level, in a 
fusion process, two lighter atomic nuclei (often Deuterium and Tritium) 
combine to form a heavier nucleus (e.g. the Helium-4 nucleus) in a 
reaction that produces neutrons and releases a tremendous amount of 
energy. This energy can be harnessed using devices called "fusion 
reactors". As of 2024, while no fusion reactor has reached net positive 
power, Magnetic Confinement Fusion (MCF) offers an interesting 
possibility of a technique that may work, achieving high values up to Q 
= 0.67 in the past. [1] This report will introduce this technique, give 
an example of a practical design based on MCF, talk about its 
limitations and look forward to promising avenues of research for 
building the first net power fusion reactor.
  Magnetic Confinement Fusion
  The process of fusing two lighter nuclei is governed 
by the strong nuclear force and Coulombic repulsion, with the former 
overcoming the latter at extremely high temperatures and pressures, 
enabling the nuclei to fuse. These temperatures and pressures range at 
around 100 million degrees Celsius and hundreds of billions of Pascals 
respectively this temperature range ensures that the kinetic energy of 
the nuclei is sufficient to come into close proximity such that the 
strong nuclear force overcomes their electrostatic repulsion. Operating 
with such extremely hot plasma, any materials would vaporize upon 
contact. So, Magnetic Confinement Fusion aims to use magnetic fields, 
which guide and contain the ionized gasses of Deuterium and Tritium (in 
the form of hot plasma) to prevent contact with the walls of the nuclear 
reactor.
    2
    D +
    3
    T →
    4
    He + n
  Another condition for MCF to occur is called the 
Lawson criterion. The criterion specifies the minimum required value for 
the product of the ionized plasmas electron density (n
    e
    ), the 
plasma temperature T, and the energy confinement time (e
    T
    ) 
that leads to net energy output.
  Tokamaks
  Utilizing the physics of charged particle motion, a 
popular MCF-based design for a reactor is called a Tokamak, a Russian 
acronym for 'toroidal chamber with magnetic coils'. Composed of several 
thick walls of carbon composites and tungsten, Tokamaks achieve 
extremely high temperatures by employing ohmic heating, nuclear beam 
injections to ionize the plasma using high-energy atoms, and 
radiofrequency heating. A toroidal magnetic field is generated by 
superconducting coils wrapped around the torus, confining the plasma 
within the toroidal chamber the field lines run parallel to the 
direction of the plasma current, helping to minimize radial losses of 
charged particles. To capture the kinetic energy of neutrons (which 
carries over 80% of the reactions total energy), Tokamaks leverage a 
lithium or lithium-bearing blanket surrounding the plasma chamber, 
surrounded by coolants and allows for tritium breeding via the following 
reactions:
          6
          Li + n
        →
          He +
          7
          T + n
  There are numerous ambitious projects using Tokamaks 
to build net power nuclear reactors today, such as the International 
Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER), Joint European Torus (JET), 
ST40 at Tokamak Energy Ltd in Oxford, UK, and the China Fusion 
Engineering Test Reactor (CFETR), aiming to achieve Q-values (the ratio 
of fusion power output to input power) of greater than 1, sometimes even 
as high as aiming for Q ≥ 10. Today, JET holds the record for producing 
69 MJ of energy output over a 5-second period. [2]
  Looking Forward: Where Are We Heading?
  Tokamaks and designs employing Magnetic Confinement 
Fusion still face significant challenges in the goal of reaching net 
power, i.e. a Q > 1 value. Tokamaks face various instability modes, such 
as kink, ballooning, and tearing modes, which can lead to plasma 
disruption; neutron irradiation can affect the material durability of 
the first-wall and divertor materials of the lithium blanket, or even 
cause material activation, making reactor components radioactive and 
brittle (via neutron embrittlement).
  A number of core technical challenges need to be 
solved in order to reach the goal of producing a sustainable, net power 
fusion reactor. From material and structural challenges to efficient 
energy capture (e.g. via innovations in supercritical CO
    cycles), magnetic confinement fusion today remains a challenging yet the 
most promising and ambitious goal to produce a clean, sustainable energy 
source for humanity's future.
  © Kushal Thaman.  The author warrants that the 
work is the author's own and that Stanford University provided no input 
other than typesetting and referencing guidelines. The author grants 
permission to copy, distribute and display this work in unaltered form, 
with attribution to the author, for noncommercial purposes only.  All 
other rights, including commercial rights, are reserved to the 
author.
  References
  [1] M. L. Watkins
    et al.
    , "Physics of High 
Performance JET Plasmas in DT," Nucl. Fusion
    39
    , 1227 (1999).
  [2] E. Gibney, "Fusion Reactors Smashes Energy 
Record," Nature
    602
    , 371 (2022).
  [3] S. Li
    , "Optimal Tracking for a 
Divergent-Type Parabolic PDF System in Current Profile Control, Abstr. 
Appl. Anal.
    2014
    , 940945 (2014).