                  Brands
                  Discover
                  Events
                  Newsletter
                  More
                    The Captable
                    SMB Story
                    HerStory
                    Social Story
                    Enterprise Story
                    The Decrypting Story
                    YS life
                    YS Hindi
                    YS Tamil
                    YSTV
                    Follow Us
                    Daily Newsletter
                      Subscribe
                  By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy. We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.
                  Sign In
                Founder first
                Just In
              Resources
              Stories
                  $
                  /$
                    General
                        In-Depth
                        Announcement
                        Reports
                        News
                        Funding
                    Startup Sectors
                        Women in tech
                        Sportstech
                        Agritech
                        E-Commerce
                        Education
                    Lifestyle
                        Entertainment
                        Art & Culture
                        Travel & Leisure
                        Curtain Raiser
                        Wine and Food
                    ADVERTISEMENT
                    [Advertise with us](https://form.jotform.com/241131402067038)
                  [Spotlight](/category/spotlight)
                Shooting for the moon, these three 20-year-olds at Berkeley University are powering Indian tech startups with their accelerator
                    [Shruthi Mohan](/author/shruthi-mohan)
                    [173 Stories](/author/shruthi-mohan)
                    Sunday January 22, 2017
                      7 min Read
                        Bridging the gap between Indian early-stage startups and the huge pool of talent in the Silicon Valley are three ambitious 20-year-old Indian students from Berkeley University, California. Their venture, Moonshot Accelerators, and passion are promising and fresh.
                      The opportunity for fundraising in the States is very high, especially for an Indian startup,
                      says Abhinav Kukreja, Founder of Moonshot Accelerators.
                      As the Indian startup ecosystem matures, the icons of the industry are getting younger and younger.
                          Moonshot Accelerator
                        is an excellent case in point. Its three founders are students at the University of California (UC), Berkeley and 20 years of age, and bring with them the passion and innovative mindset of youth.
                          Abhinav Kukreja, Anish Prabhu
                        and
                          Aryaman Dalmia
                        are young and ambitious, and they will overwhelm you with their plans for the Indian startup ecosystem.
                        Aryaman, Abhinav and Anish
                      The trio is running a four-month-long accelerator programme, The Moonshot Accelerator, that seeks to connect early-stage Indian startups with the US technology ecosystem, with the aim of facilitating communication, access to mentorship and consulting, and fundraising.
                        What’s in a name?
                      When questioned about the venture’s seemingly ambitious name, Abhinav Kukreja says,
                      Moonshots are ideas that are so daring that they can’t possibly work. Humans landing on the moon, for example, was a moonshot. We wanted to work with daring entrepreneurs, taking on big challenges and making giant leaps, and the name seemed perfect.
                      What led the the trio to launch Moonshot Accelerators in 2016? The founders, who met at UC Berkeley, say they realised they were great at working together, each one bringing complimentary expertise and skill sets. The most important factor, however, was that they cared about the Indian startup ecosystem. They wanted to do their best to make it better, and providing early-stage startups with the opportunity of working closely with Silicon Valley experts was one way of doing that.
                      The three, each of whom flaunts an illustrious past, are right now pursuing their bachelor’s degrees at UC Berkeley. Both Abhinav and Anish had donned the hat of an entrepreneur in their late teens, with Zovata and Paradigm Shift, respectively. Zovata is an augmented reality and latex printing company that Abhinav started at the age of 18, in partnership with Hewlett Packard. . Anish, meanwhile, started up non-profit organisation Paradigm Shift, established to bring technological training to young underprivileged students across the state of California. Aryaman is a published author, having come out with the book ‘Graham, Buffett and Me’ at the age of 15, and also carries the tag of being a Keynote Speaker at Activate Singapore.
                        Abhinav and Anish
                        USP of Moonshot
                      Explaining about the accelerator programme, Abhinav says,
                      Our programme has three core components. We run a pro bono internship programme for our portfolio companies at UC, Berkeley. We also have a pro bono consulting programme connecting you to the best and brightest of both Silicon Valley and India. Lastly, our fundraising programme is dedicated to helping you find the right investor, both in terms of industry and fit.
                      Being based out of arguably one of the top universities in the world comes in handy for this bunch of youngsters. The accelerator invests in helping companies that are looking to raise funding as well as that have already seen investment. They also provide them an intellectual framework in mentorship and fundraising, which are two of the core challenges in starting up. Abhinav says,
                      The most important thing for a startup is to learn to manage time and money. While funds may provide funding, the challenge lies in entrepreneurs, particularly those who are inexperienced, using that funding cautiously, making sure that their burn rates don’t go haywire, and managing time and human resources effectively. I think accelerators help facilitate that.
                        During one of their hackathons in Mumbai
                      Moonshot boasts of an illustrious pool of entrepreneurs, data scientists and computer engineers, including such names as
                        Alok Mittal
                        (
                          Co-founder and CEO, Indifi
                        ),
                          Gaurav Dalmia
                        (Managing Partner, GTI Group LLC),
                          Raj Jain
                          CEO, Bennett Coleman & Co. Ltd),
                          Rajeev Banduni
                          Co-founder and CEO, GrowthEnabler Global), and
                          Puneet Dalmia
                          CEO, Dalmia Cement),
                        as advisors.
                      Among the other experts that Moonshot provides startups access to are
                        Vinodh Poyyakam
                          Sr. Marketing Manager, Samsung),
                          Amit Jain
                          VP of Investing, GTI Capital),
                          Anand Prasana
                          (Managing Director, Iron Pillar Fund),
                          Ben Mathews
                          (Associate, Bessemer Ventures),
                          Jim Behrens
                          (Founder and CEO, MobileAngel),
                          Niladri Mukhopadhyay
                          (Managing Director, Goldman Sachs),
                          Niten Lalpuria
                          (Principal, Paragon Partners),
                          Russel Murphy
                          (Managing Member, Murcada Ventures),
                          Siddharth Parekh
                          (Co-founder, Paragon Partners) and
                          Sumeet Nindrajog
                          Co-founder, Paragon Partners),
                        among others.
                        Also read
                        :
                            How Facebook is gearing up for the growth of Indian startups. In conversation with Satyajeet Singh, head of Strategic Product Partnerships at Facebook India
                        Early-stage beneficiaries
                      The first batch of the accelerator programme, comprising six startups, commenced in April last year, while the recently concluded second batch had five startups. Among the 11 startups that have passed under the archways of Moonshot are Frapp, ListUP, Numberz, Hombot, Pumpcharge and Azuro. The startups of the second batch are yet to be out.
                      When asked about the filters in picking these companies, Aryaman says,
                      The focus for us right now is Machine Learning and Data Science; so, companies innovating on those fronts are pretty interesting to us. We are looking for startups that are willing to put a good amount of work into this programme, because that’s the only way to get a lot out of it. We also care about where they are in terms of the stage of development and how solid their business model is, since we are not very keen on the Silicon Valley approach of not worrying about revenues. A big part is also social technology. We want to work with companies solving real problems faced by the Indian audience, specifically people who don’t have access to resources like water, food, electricity and the internet.
                        Abhinav and Aryaman
                      After the three components of the accelerator programme comprising mentorship, consulting and fundraising conclude, the selected startups participate in a demo day in Silicon Valley. This day entails a hands-on experience with all the partners, startups and investors.
                        Maturity beyond years
                      While most of the younger lot of startup founders are naïve and underconfident, the trio defies such a stereotype. When probed about the pros and cons of being young members of the ecosystem, Abhinav says,
                      The pros are that I have more time to fail and experiment and take risks. The cons are that I miss out on a lot of things that people my age otherwise do. It’s hard to graduate from Berkeley, and it’s harder when you’re running a venture (or two) on the side, but we have our priorities lined up, so we tend to skirt conflict. We’re extremely passionate about what we are doing, and so, we make time for it.
                      With a team of 30, most of whom are students at Berkeley, Moonshot Accelrators is marching ahead with all its youthful exuberance. With 2016 seeing a dearth of funding, the year ahead looks tricky. Anish says,
                      A large part of this would be how people react to decisions like demonetisation and the GST, and how they use technology to help people affected by these. Our collaboration with Invest India also leverages our experience with the Government of India.
                      With the energy and optimism that come so naturally to those of their age, the trio’s goal of building a bridge between early-stage Indian startups and Silicon Valley is nothing less than admirable and inspiring.
                            Website
                  MOST VIEWED STORIES
                        1
                            [Books](/category/books)
                          [4 Books recommended by Steve Jobs for success in life](/2025/02/steve-jobs-books-success)
                      2
                          [Innovation](/category/ys-innovation)
                          Charting new frontiers: Untapped opportunities between Northern Ireland and India
                      3
                          [Startup](/category/ys-startup)
                          From garage to glory: How CarDekho's founders built a tech giant from Rajasthan
                      4
                          [AI Gen](/category/ai-gen)
                          Skype's Shutdown in 2025: The End of an Era for Digital Communication
                      5
                          [Financial Services](/category/financial-services)
                          How Efficient Capital Labs is powering the AI space with non-dilutive funding
                The CapTable
                YS Life
              Topics
                practo
                microsoft
                ola
                swiggy
                zomato
                uber
                delhivery
                amazon
                cred
                nykaa
              Resource Hub
                Glossary
                Everything AI
                How-to’s
                knowledge base
                Opinion
                Unicorns of India
              Upcoming Events
                DevSparks Pune
                SheSparks
                List Your Startup
                Startup Spotlight
                Pitch To Us
                Browse Startups
              YS Buzz
              Start your day with impactful startup stories and concise news! All delivered in a quick five-minute read in your inbox.
                I hereby consent to the processing of the personal data that I have provided and declare my agreement with the data protection regulations in the privacy policy on the website.
                Advertise with Newsletter
            [About Us](/about-us)
            [Meet the Team](/team)
            [Careers](/jobs)
            [Privacy Policy](/privacy-policy)
            [Terms & Condition](/terms-and-conditions)