  End Google Tag Manager
              Departments
                  Bioengineering
                  Civil and Environmental Engineering
                  Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences
                  Industrial Engineering and Operations Research
                  Materials Science and Engineering
                  Mechanical Engineering
                  Nuclear Engineering
                  Aerospace program
                  Engineering Science program
              News
                  Berkeley Engineer magazine
                  Social media
                  News videos
                  News digest (email)
                  Press kit
              Events
                  Events calendar
                  Commencement
                  Homecoming
                  Cal Day
                  Space reservations
                  View from the Top
                  Kuh Lecture Series
                  Minner Lecture
              College directory
              For staff & faculty
          Educating leaders. Creating knowledge. Serving society.
                    Go
              About
                  Facts & figures
                  Rankings
                  Mission & values
                  Equity & inclusion
                  Voices of Berkeley Engineering
                  Leadership team
                  Milestones
                  Buildings & facilities
                  Maps
              Admissions
                  Undergraduate admissions
                  Graduate admissions
                  New students
                  Visit
                  Admissions events
                  K-12 outreach
              Academics
                  Undergraduate programs
                  Majors & minors
                  Undergraduate Guide
                  Graduate programs
                  Graduate Guide
                  Innovation & entrepreneurship
                  Kresge Engineering Library
                  International programs
                  Executive education
              Students
                  Advising & counseling
                  ESS programs
                  CAEE academic support
                  Student life
                  Wellness & inclusion
                  > Degree requirements
                  > Policies & procedures
                  Forms & petitions
                  Resources
              Research & faculty
                  Centers & institutes
                  Undergrad research
                  Faculty
                  Sustainability and resiliency
              Connect
                  Alumni
                  Industry
                  Give
                  Stay in touch
                Home
            >
            > Berkeley Engineering welcomes eight new faculty members
            New engineering faculty, clockwise from top-left, Franco Zunino (CEE), Manxi Wu (CEE), Emma Pierson (EECS), Mengjie Yu (EECS), Alex Dimakis (EECS), Jiyun Kang (MSE), Claudio Hail (ME) and Zaijun Chen (EECS).
            Berkeley Engineering welcomes eight new faculty members
              January 21, 2025 by Caitlin Kelley
              content
              Berkeley Engineering has added eight new faculty members to its roster. These tenure-track professors will bring their wide range of expertise to four departments across the college.
                  Zaijun Chen
                , assistant professor of electrical engineering and computer sciences*
              Chen received his Ph.D. in physics with the highest distinction from the Max Planck Institute of Quantum Optics and the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich. He is a principal investigator for the DARPA NaPSAC program in developing next-generation AI processors and is co-PI for the DARPA INSPIRED program for on-chip quantum sensing.
                  [Alex Dimakis](https://vcresearch.berkeley.edu/faculty/alex-dimakis)
                  , professor of electrical engineering and computer sciences*
              Dimakis earned his Ph.D. and M.S. in electrical engineering and computer sciences from UC Berkeley, and he previously spent 12 years teaching at the University of Texas at Austin. His research spans information theory, generative AI and machine learning, and his previous projects involved big graph analytics, new erasure codes for big data storage, and learning sparse polynomials and causality.
                  [Claudio Hail](https://www.claudiouhail.com/)
                  , assistant professor of mechanical engineering
              Hail completed his Ph.D. at ETH Zürich in Switzerland. His research will focus on leveraging nanoengineered optical materials and micro/nanomanufacturing to address clean energy technologies and global challenges ranging from new concepts for space travel and manufacturing quantum hardware to advancing imaging/sensing devices.
                  Jiyun Kang
                , assistant professor of materials science and engineering
              Kang received her Ph.D. in materials science from MIT. Her research interests lie in the areas of physical metallurgy, manufacturing and in-situ microscopy, emphasizing the use of autonomous experimentation to develop advanced alloys with outstanding mechanical and environmental performance.
                  Emma Pierson
              Pierson received her Ph.D. from Stanford University in computer science, and she previously worked as an assistant professor at Cornell Tech. She is focused on developing data science and machine learning methods to study two broad areas: inequality and healthcare. Her papers have delved into topics such as segregation, fair clinical prediction and inequality in pain.
                  Manxi Wu
                , assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering
              Wu completed her Ph.D. in 2021 from the Institute for Data, Systems and Society at MIT, and she previously worked as an assistant professor at Cornell University Operations Research and Information Engineering. Her research develops methods in game theory, multi-agent learning and optimization with applications in urban systems.
                  Mengjie Yu
              Yu earned her Ph.D. from Cornell University’s School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, and she previously worked as an assistant professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Southern California. Her work aims to advance the fundamental understanding of nonlinear sciences at nanoscale, as well as realize next-generation optoelectronic circuits that could sit on our fingertips and solve real-life problems.
                  Franco Zunino
              Zunino earned his Ph.D. in materials science from Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne in Switzerland. His research revolves around the development of novel, cementitious materials that are environmentally friendly. He is interested in time-resolved characterization methods of cement hydration, interaction of surfaces with polymers in cement paste, microstructural analysis through electron microscopy, and optimization of the production process of clinker and supplementary cementitious materials.
              *The EECS department is shared by the College of Engineering and the College of Computing, Data Science, and Society.
              /content
                Topics:
                ,
                [College news](https://engineering.berkeley.edu/category/college-news/)
                  Contact
                  Privacy
                  UC Berkeley
                  Accessibility
                  Nondiscrimination
        © 2025 UC Regents