            [Home](index.html)
            [Projects](about.html)
            [Sponsors](sponsors.html)
            [Blog](blog.html)
            [Contact](contact.html)
            [Meet the Team](team.html)
            [Join](join.html)
              Leadership
              Digital
              Analog
              Physical Design
              Software
              Board Level Design
              Project Management
                      Austin Brown
                      President
                      William Salcedo
                      Vice-President
                      Sarosh Khan
                      Financial Officer
                      Sonnet Xu
                      Chief Operations Officer
                      Fengrui Zuo
                      Industry Outreach Officer
        Digital Subteam
          Digital Design Subteam
          The Digital Register-Transfer Level (RTL) Design Subteam focuses on developing high-performance digital hardware accelerators. We create detailed microarchitectures and collaborate with the Software Subteam to ensure seamless software-hardware integration. Our work includes writing and verifying Hardware Description Language (HDL) code and running simulations on behavioral models to validate our designs.
                      Suresh Nambi
                      Digital Design Co-Lead
                      Stan Lee
        Analog Subteam
          Analog Design Subteam
          The Analog Subteam focuses on designing and verifying analog components such as amplifiers, voltage references, and PMICs. We conduct device simulations, work with both open-source and proprietary software for schematic generation and routing, and perform bench testing and verification. Additionally, we explore cryogenic ASICs, including ADCs and amplifiers, providing members with comprehensive experience in analog design and testing.
                      Analog Design Co-Lead
                      Steven Abrego
        Physical Design Subteam
          The Physical Design Subteam is dedicated to mastering the intricacies of ASIC design. We work with both open-source and proprietary ASIC tools, developing our own scripts and optimizing designs to meet Performance, Power, and Area (PPA) requirements.
                      Angelina Krinos
                      Physical Design Co-Lead
        Software Subteam
          Software & Firmware Subteam
          The Software and Firmware Subteam bridges the gap between hardware and chip applications. We develop compilers, firmware, and low-level libraries to enhance productivity across the computing stack, as well as to create end-user applications and interfaces. Additionally, we contribute to open-source tools, enriching the open-source semiconductor community.
                      Software Lead 1
                      Software & Firmware Lead
        PCB Subteam
          Board Level Design Subteam
          The Board Level Design Subteam is geared towards developing and assembling Printed Circuit Boards (PCBs), integrating complex systems into a single location. With system and technical specifications in mind, we build infrastructure to bring up chips when they return from the fab. This hands-on work ensures seamless integration and functionality of our designs.
                      Rohan Karunaratne
                      Board Level Design Lead
        Project Management Subteam
          The Project Management Subteam drives the operation and flow of OS3’s various ongoing engineering projects. We communicate regularly with partners to generate system-level requirements and technical specifications. Our team serves as a bridge between social needs and club operations, ensuring our projects align with broader goals and meet stakeholder expectations.
                      Eric Liu
                      Project Management Lead
      © 2024 Open Source Silicon @ Stanford