  End Google Tag Manager
              Departments
                  Bioengineering
                  Civil and Environmental Engineering
                  Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences
                  Industrial Engineering and Operations Research
                  Materials Science and Engineering
                  Mechanical Engineering
                  Nuclear Engineering
                  Aerospace program
                  Engineering Science program
              News
                  Berkeley Engineer magazine
                  Social media
                  News videos
                  News digest (email)
                  Press kit
              Events
                  Events calendar
                  Commencement
                  Homecoming
                  Cal Day
                  Space reservations
                  View from the Top
                  Kuh Lecture Series
                  Minner Lecture
              College directory
              For staff & faculty
          Educating leaders. Creating knowledge. Serving society.
                    Go
              About
                  Facts & figures
                  Rankings
                  Mission & values
                  Equity & inclusion
                  Voices of Berkeley Engineering
                  Leadership team
                  Milestones
                  Buildings & facilities
                  Maps
              Admissions
                  Undergraduate admissions
                  Graduate admissions
                  New students
                  Visit
                  Admissions events
                  K-12 outreach
              Academics
                  Undergraduate programs
                  Majors & minors
                  Undergraduate Guide
                  Graduate programs
                  Graduate Guide
                  Innovation & entrepreneurship
                  Kresge Engineering Library
                  International programs
                  Executive education
              Students
                  Advising & counseling
                  ESS programs
                  CAEE academic support
                  Student life
                  Wellness & inclusion
                  > Degree requirements
                  > Policies & procedures
                  Forms & petitions
                  Resources
              Research & faculty
                  Centers & institutes
                  Undergrad research
                  Faculty
                  Sustainability and resiliency
              Connect
                  Alumni
                  Industry
                  Give
                  Stay in touch
              [Graduate students](https://engineering.berkeley.edu/about/equity-and-inclusion/graduate-students/)
              [Meet Dean Liu](https://engineering.berkeley.edu/about/leadership-team/meet-the-dean/)
              [Engineering Advisory Board](https://engineering.berkeley.edu/about/leadership-team/engineering-advisory-board/)
              [2020 Facilities Master Plan](https://engineering.berkeley.edu/about/facilities/master-plan/)
              [Building emergency information](https://engineering.berkeley.edu/about/facilities/building-emergency-information/)
                Home
            >
                Equity and inclusion
            > Engineering Ambassadors
            Engineering Ambassadors
            content
              In response to feedback from our partners, we established an Engineering Ambassadors program in August 2022. Our Engineering Ambassadors program consists of Berkeley undergraduate students that support K-12 outreach through a variety of activities, including campus tours, presentations, career panels, and school visits. As tangible proof of their value, our ambassadors are hired as student assistants and paid a competitive wage.
              Our ambassador program is part of the
                [Engineering Ambassadors Network](http://www.engineeringambassadorsnetwork.org/)
                , led by Penn State. The Engineering Ambassadors Network (EAN) is an alliance of universities that aims to train a cohort of diverse and technically skilled engineering undergraduates on how to excite K-12 students about engineering. Since 2010, EAN has reached more than 45,000 K-12 students. EAN also provides professional development training for the ambassadors themselves – important soft skills that students can apply in their future careers.
                      Schools and community organizations can request tours, presentations, or other activities by submitting a request through our
                        [contact form](https://engineering.berkeley.edu/about/equity-and-inclusion/k-12-outreach/contact-the-k-12-outreach-team/)
                        . (We also welcome requests for virtual activities.)
                        We currently focus on offering one-off events/activities rather than recurring programs.
                      Ambassador activities
                      Our school and community partners guide and inform our ambassadors’ outreach activities. We also encourage our ambassadors to suggest activities. Example activities are listed below:
                        Developing new presentations that introduce young students to engineering topics
                        Leading tours of Berkeley Engineering’s buildings
                        Facilitating hands-on activities or leading presentations as part of a class or after-school program in local K-12 schools
                        Conducting hands-on activities during community festivals or K-12 school events
                        Participating in student panels
                        Creating social media posts to share Berkeley Engineering students’ experiences
                        Supporting Berkeley Engineering’s K-12 Outreach Team with planning, preparing for events, and our overall activities
                      Ambassadors also engage in communications training and other professional development activities, including the Engineering Ambassador Network’s
                        [communication training program](http://www.engineeringambassadorsnetwork.org/new-eas.html)
                        .
              Meet our ambassadors
              We recruited ambassadors who are passionate about diversifying engineering, and we are thrilled with our first cohort of ambassadors. In future years we expect to move experienced students into leadership positions, making it possible to streamline training and grow our ambassador team.
                      Mahika Behani
                      Hi! I’m Mahika, and I use the she/her/hers pronouns! I am from Bangalore, India, and I’m a sophomore studying Environmental Engineering. I’ve always been really passionate about sustainability, and I love all things outdoorsy – I scuba-dive and surf, and I’m on the Sailing Team here at Berkeley! Back home, there isn’t a lot of female representation in STEM, and I’m proud to be the first girl in my family to study engineering. I’m excited to help raise awareness about all the wonderful women in STEM in this world and inspire girls to follow their dreams and pursue a STEM degree!
                      Arihant Choudhary
                      Hi! My name is Arihant Choudhary (he/him/his). I’m a junior from Kolkata, India studying CS and Data Science. I enjoy working on projects that help create meaningful impact and foster learning and academic growth. I also really like puzzle-solving and playing games. I like talking about failure and want to help de-stigmatize the embarrassment around talking about failing (especially in a highly competitive environment like college and in fields like engineering). I’m always excited to talk to and meet new people!
                      Sophia Dateshidze
                      Hi there! My name is Sophia and I use the she/her/hers pronouns! I am from Los Angeles, California, and I am in my 3rd year studying Bioengineering with a concentration in both Synthetic and Computational Biology and Cell and Tissue Engineering. I chose to major in Bioengineering because of how interdisciplinary and vast the curriculum is and its applications in making new medical technologies. For as long as I can remember, I have wanted to help people by making medical treatment more accessible, and at Berkeley, I’ve discovered a passion for research. I believe it’s important for others to know that engineering is for everyone—no matter how intimidating it may appear. I hope to inspire others to take the leap and explore all engineering has to offer. Outside of my classes, I am passionate about working with animals, and I love spending time outdoors, playing volleyball, and baking.
                      Preetal Deshpande
                      Hello! My name is Preetal Deshpande (she/her), and I’m from Cupertino, CA. I’m a sophomore at UC Berkeley, majoring in Bioengineering and minoring in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS). From a young age, I’ve been passionate about healthcare and driven to make a meaningful impact in my community. Bioengineering allows me to combine my love for science and technology to improve lives through innovative research and biotechnology solutions. I’m deeply involved in research, constantly seeking to learn more about the human body and the incredible potential of technology in healthcare. Beyond coursework and the lab, I am passionate about bridging the gaps in STEM—whether it be addressing gender disparities, improving representation, or making education more accessible to underserved communities. I’m dedicated to educating and inspiring others, fostering a positive impact, and helping create an inclusive future for all.
                      Alejandro Hernandez
                      Hello! I am Alejandro Hernandez (he/him), but you can call me Alex. I grew up in the Central Valley of California, born in Delano and raised in Earlimart. I am currently in my third year here at UC Berkeley with Senior standing, majoring in Electrical Engineering & Computer Sciences. Since I grew up in a very rural area of California, I was never really exposed to the wonders of engineering before college. I had no idea what career I wanted to pursue in life and no clue what I was getting myself into! The only thing that I knew was this: I wanted to change the world.
                      Over the years, I became very fond of the Internet of Things, the electrical and computational devices that interconnect us all. That’s how I blindly decided that electrical engineering was the career path I wanted, but I want you all to know that the takeaway here isn’t to have your life completely figured out before college. The lesson is that to develop a passion for something you have to be willing to learn more about it; it isn’t always love at first sight.
                      Jordan Kam
                      Hello! My name is Jordan Kam (he/him/his), and I am from San Bernardino, CA. Currently, I am a sophomore undergraduate studying Aerospace Engineering here at UC Berkeley with a passion for Space Technology. My motivation for choosing Aerospace Engineering lies in my dad’s dream of exploring the stars. My goal in life is to help others achieve that same wish through engineering and innovation. Outside of engineering, I am very passionate about spending time with my friends and connecting with people socially. Nothing beats a trip to the beach!
                      Nadeen Mohamed
                      Hi! I am Nadeen Mohamed (she/her), and I am from Sacramento, CA. I am a second-year majoring in Civil Engineering and minoring in Spanish. Growing up in Dubai, I had the opportunity to see one of the most impressive cities in the world come to life. Engineering became a unifying force for me, bringing people from all walks of life together in the city. Over time, I recognized that Civil Engineering would be a fulfilling path for me. Besides coursework, I enjoy learning about different cultures and languages. Currently, my focus is on Spanish, but I plan on continuing my efforts to expand my cultural education in the future. I am a firm believer that the first step to bridging animosity between people is through education and empathy.
                      Ria Nakahara
                      My name is Ria Nakahara (she/her), and I’m a 3rd year studying data science at Berkeley. I was born in Tokyo, Japan, and grew up in Singapore prior to entering university. As someone who loves to read and write in her free time, there is nothing more compelling to me than using numbers to uncover stories. I am a big Studio Ghibli fan (think My Neighbor Totoro and Spirited Away) and would love to learn how to crochet the adorable characters!
                      Dylan O’Dwyer
                      Hi! My name is Dylan O’Dwyer (he/him), and I’m from San Fernando Valley, Los Angeles. I’m a Junior (3rd year) majoring in Mechanical Engineering and minoring in education. I have always wanted to help others through engineering, and Berkeley provides a place where I can master my skills in engineering while gathering different perspectives from my peers and professors. One perspective I have gained as an engineering student at Berkeley is that we are not always perfect or correct. In most cases, it takes multiple errors or mistakes to learn how to solve problems, and that’s the best way to learn. I am also a huge sports person. I played baseball for seven years, and I just bought a new glove to start playing catch again.
                      Mandy Pham
                      Hi, my name is Mandy Pham, and I use she/her pronouns. I am originally from Elk Grove/Sacramento and am a second-year student studying EECS (Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences). I am studying EECS to explore more opportunities and find interrelated disciplines that I would like to explore in industry and the educational sector.
                      I believe engineering should be accessible to all. As an ambassador and first-generation college student, I hope to provide resources, support, and advice to all students. Outside of engineering, I love to dance and am a part of Main Stacks and AFX Comp! Some other hobbies include cooking, hiking, cafe hopping, and trying new foods!
                      Shishira Somashekar
                      Hi everyone, my name is Shishira, and I use the she/her/hers pronouns. I am in my second year studying Industrial Engineering & Operations Research (IEOR) with a Data Science minor. I am from a town right outside of Durham, North Carolina!
                      I came to UC Berkeley as an Environmental Engineering Science major and have now made my way into IEOR. Switching majors has been a journey, and I am looking forward to exploring my interests in renewable energy/sustainability through the lens of IEOR. Outside of my coursework, I enjoy being outdoors, running, thrifting, and spending quality time with family and friends. I am excited to share how truly endless the possibilities with engineering are and that there is really no singular linear path that an engineer “should” take!
            /content
                  Contact
                  Privacy
                  UC Berkeley
                  Accessibility
                  Nondiscrimination
        © 2025 UC Regents