  pageHtmlEmbeds.bodyStart start
  pageHtmlEmbeds.bodyStart end
        top of page
      $
      /$
                                      [zeyneb](https://www.zeynebnk.com)
                                      [writing](https://www.zeynebnk.com/blog)
                                                  Zeyneb N. Kaya
                                                Hi! I am Zeyneb, a student at Stanford University.
                                                I’m a researcher in AI interested in understanding and advancing NLP algorithms; my work broadly explores areas in data efficiency and interpretability toward furthering the robust reasoning capabilities of algorithms beyond shallow pattern memorization. I’m always looking to discuss interesting ideas and opportunities—please reach out!
                                                  ​
                                                Feel free to reach out at
                                                  [zeynebnk@stanford.edu](mailto:zeynebnk@stanford.edu)
                                                  .
                                    Education.
                                                  Stanford University
                                            2024-Present
                                            4.0 GPA
                                              Stanford ASES (Affiliated Stanford Entrepreneurial Students) Bootcamp Scholar
                                                Relevant Coursework:
                                                Natural Language Processing with Deep Learning, AI & Language, Programming Abstractions, Computer Organization & Systems, Probability for Computer Scientists, Mathematical Foundations of Computing
                                                        Saratoga High School
                                                        [2020-2024](tel:2020-2024)
                                                    AI Club Co-President, Linguistics Club Founder & President, Chinese Club Officer
                                                4.0 UW / 4.5 W (10-12) GPA
                                                        West Valley Community College
                                                  Dual Enrollment: Differential Equations, Linear Algebra, M
                                                    ultivariable Calculus, Cultural Anthropology
                                    Research.
                                  My research interests are in natural language processing, linguistics, and data science. I am interested in advancing our understanding of language models and their capabilities, and using that to advance them and push their limits; I'm broadly interested in low-resource/data-efficient algorithms and interpretability
                                  . Listed below are selected relevant publications.
                                                    Full Scope Word Embedding Variability for Low-Resource Languages
                                                        , Annie K. Lamar
                                                        IEEE MIT Undergraduate Research and Technology Conference, 2023
                                              Vector Space Distance as a Measurement of Word Embedding Variability in Low-Resource Linguistic Environments
                                                  Under Review, The North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics, 2025
                                              Decoding Large-Language Models: A Systematic Overview of Socio-Technical Impacts, Constraints, and Emerging Questions
                                                  , Souvick Ghosh
                                                  arXiv
                                              Measuring the Impact of Data Augmentation Methods for Extremely Low-Resource NMT
                                                  Proceedings of the Sixth Workshop on Technologies for Machine Translation of Low-Resource Languages (LoResMT) @ EACL, 2023
                                              MADLIBS: A Novel Multilingual Data Augmentation Algorithm for Low-Resource Neural Machine Translation
                                                  Regeneron Science Talent Search,
                                                    [2023-2024](tel:2023-2024)
                                              The Pervasiveness of Language Contact: Evidence from Negative Existentials in Romeyka/Turkish Code-Switching
                                                  Proceedings of the Linguistic Society of America (PLSA), 2023
                                              Women in the Workplace: Analyzing Gender Biases in Corporate Email Communications
                                                  International Conference on Computational Social Science (IC2S2), 2023
                                              What You Say Is What You Think: An Analysis Of Intellectual Humility In Online Discussion Forums
                                                  Zeyneb N. Kaya,
                                                  Manya Sriram
                                                  University of California, Santa Barbara, 2022
                                              An Artificial Intelligence Model on Rheumatology: Interpretation of the Sacroiliac Joint Graphy in Ankylosing Spondylitis
                                                Ahmet C. Genc,
                                                  , et al
                                                  Annals of the Rheumatic Diseases, 2021
                                    Writing.
                                  I view language as a medium for influence. Through writing, I want to challenge our views and share new perspectives and stories. My work has been published in various international literary journals and platforms.
                                    Books.
                                    Everlasting Conn
                                    ection:
                                    Language, Time, S
                                    ociety, and Technology
                                    Breaking Barriers:
                                    Celebrating Women and Diversity in Data Science
                                      Zeyneb N. Kaya & Shivani Mudhol
                                            Amazon #1 New Release, STEM Education
                                    Honors.
                                    Selected Honors
                                                      Regeneron Science Talent Search Winner
                                                        $90K/5th Place Winner, 2024
                                                      Coca Cola Scholar
                                                          2024
                                                      NCWIT Collegiate Research Award
                                                  Finalist, 2025
                                                        National Junior Science and Humanities Symposium (NJSHS)
                                                  Honorable Mention, Math/CS, 2023
                                                    TreeHacks - Scrapybara Award
                                                          2025
                                                    Congre
                                                    ssional App Challenge Winner
                                                          2021
                                                      NCWIT Aspirations in Computing
                                                  National Award Winner + Regional Affiliate, 2023
                                                      US Presidential Scholars Semifinalist
                                                    North American Computational Linguistics Olympiad (NACLO)
                                                        Invitational Round Qualifier, 2023
                                                        RISE Challenge
                                                        Finalist, 2023
                                                      Stanford Women in Data Science (WiDS) Da
                                                      tathon
                                                        Top High School Winner, 2023
                                                      Online Linguistics Olympiad
                                                        10th Place, 1st in USA, 2023
                                                      Junior Science and Humanities Symposium (JSHS)
                                                  National Qualifier (Top 5),
                                                  2nd Math/CS, 2023
                                                      National Merit Scholarship Finalist
                                                        2023
                                                    Technovation Global Challenge
                                                        Semifinalist, 2021
                                                    Scholastic Art and Writing Competition
                                                        Honorable Mention, 2020
                                                    Synopsys Science Fair
                                                  1st Award, CSEF Qualifier, 2023
                                                    Bausch and Lomb Honorary Science Award, University of Rochester
                                                        Saratoga High School Junior Awards Ceremony, 2023
                                                      Stanford WiDS Conference
                                                        VIP Invitee, 2024
                                                    Teen
                                                    Ink
                                                        Editor's Choice Award, 2022
                                                    Natural Language Processing Specialization
                                                          DeepLearning.AI, 2021
                                                    Saratoga SMASH'N
                                                        5x Nominee,
                                                          [2022-2023](tel:2022-2023)
                                                    USACO
                                                        Silver, 2020
                                                    AP Scholar with Distinction
                                                  Romeyka
                                                  Everlasting
                                                Romeyka is a Greek dialect spoken in regions of Turkey near the Black Sea, and is a form of Pontic Greek which shows features in common with Ancient Greek that are distinct from other dialects of the language.
                                                Romeyka Everlasting  is devoted to preserving Romeyka and its heritage, using technologie
                                                s in computational linguistics to document, promote, and research the language. In rediscovering Romeyka, Romeyka Everlasting brings to light the unheard experiences of the community and fosters the continuity of its traditions for posterity.
                                              Our impact
                                            ?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?
                                    Gallery.
        bottom of page
  Polyfills check
  initCustomElements # 1
  preloading pre-scripts
  Add the rest of the ViewerModel
  renderIndicator
  versionIndicator
  used platform apis start
  used platform apis end
  Business Manager
  initCustomElements #2
  initial scripts
  lodash script
  react
  react-dom
  Loadable Component comp-lji14f5m
  scriptTagsToPreload
  Old Browsers Deprecation
  bi
  pageHtmlEmbeds.bodyEnd start
  pageHtmlEmbeds.bodyEnd end
  warmup data start
  warmup data end