  ISMRM & ISMRT Annual Meeting & Exhibition • 03-08 June 2023 • Toronto, ON, Canada
    Digital Poster
    Artefacts
        Back to Meeting Home
        Back to the Program-at-a-Glance
      Acquisition & Analysis
      Tuesday, 06 June 2023
        Exhibition Halls D/E
        16:45
        -
        17:45
        Session Number: D-10
        No CME/CE Credit
          Computer #
            3409.
          1
            [Slice-by-slice Dynamic Shimming Based on a Chemical 
				Shift-Encoded Acquisition to Improve Fat Suppression in DWI](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3409.html)
            Aidan Tollefson
              1,2
              , 
					Gaohong Wu
              3
              , 
					Patricia Lan
              4
              , 
					Arnaud Guidon
              5
              , 
					Rianne A Van Der Heijden
              2
              , 
					Daiki Tamada
              , 
					Ali Pirasteh
              , 
					and Diego Hernando
                Medical Physics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
					Madison, WI, United States,
                Radiology, 
					University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI, United 
					States,
                GE 
					Healthcare, Waukesha, WI, United States,
                GE 
					Healthcare, Menlo Park, CA, United States,
                GE 
					Healthcare, Boston, MA, United States
                Keywords:
                Artifacts, Fat
              B0 inhomogeneities can lead to failures in chemical 
					shift-based fat suppression, particularly in complex 
					susceptibility environments. Conventional volumetric 
					shimming methods are frequently unable to compensate for 
					these B0 inhomogeneities, which leads to residual fat signal 
					and artifacts in various applications. We propose a 
					slice-by-slice shimming method that relies on information 
					(water-only image, fat-only image, B0 fieldmap) derived from 
					a rapid chemical shift-encoded acquisition. This method 
					demonstrated improved fat suppression in diffusion weighted 
					imaging (DWI) of the upper leg and may lead to improved 
					reliability in other applications.
            3410.
            [Investigating the Impact of Motion and Associated B0 Changes on 
				Oxygenation Sensitive MRI through Realistic Simulations](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3410.html)
            Hannah Eichhorn
              , 
					Kerstin Hammernik
              3,4
              , 
					Samira M. Epp
              5,6
              , 
					Dimitrios C. Karampinos
              7
              , 
					Julia A. Schnabel
              1,2,8
              , 
					and Christine Preibisch
              9
                Institute of Machine Learning in Biomedical Imaging, 
					Helmholtz Center Munich, Munich, Germany,
                TUM 
					School of Computation, Information and Technology; and TUM 
					Institute for Advanced Study, Technical University of 
					Munich, Munich, Germany,
                Lab 
					for Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare and Medicine, 
					Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany,
                Department 
					of Computing, Imperial College London, London, United 
					Kingdom,
                Department 
					of Neuroradiology, Neuroimaging Center, Technical University 
					of Munich, Munich, Germany,
                6
                Graduate 
					School of Systemic Neurosciences, 
					Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Munich, Germany,
                Department 
					of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, School of 
					Medicine, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany,
                8
                School 
					of Biomedical Imaging and Imaging Sciences, King’s College 
					London, London, United Kingdom,
                Department 
					of Neuroradiology, School of Medicine, Technical University 
					of Munich, Munich, Germany
                Artifacts, Oxygenation, Motion Simulation
              T2*-weighted gradient echo imaging is strongly impacted by 
					subject head motion, amongst others due to motion-related 
					changes in B0 inhomogeneities. Within the 
					oxygenation-sensitive mqBOLD protocol, motion artifacts in 
					T2*-weighted images lead to errors in derived parameter 
					maps. To quantify these errors, we performed realistic 
					motion simulations incorporating rigid body transformations 
					and motion-related field inhomogeneity changes. Our results 
					demonstrate the importance of including B0 inhomogeneities 
					for realistic motion artifact patterns. Even small amounts 
					of simulated motion resulted in substantial errors in 
					derived T2* and R2’ parameter maps, which highlights the 
					relevance of T2* motion correction within the mqBOLD 
					technique.
            3411.
            [Independent Component Analysis for Noise Removal in MR 
				Fingerprinting](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3411.html)
            Emma L Thomson
              , 
					Claudia A M Gandini Wheeler-Kingshott
              3,4,5
              , 
					and Geoff J M Parker
              1,6,7
                Centre for Medical Image Computing, Department of 
					Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering, University 
					College London, London, United Kingdom,
                UCL 
					Queen Square Institute of Neurology, Faculty of Brain 
					Sciences, London, United Kingdom,
                NMR 
					Research Unit, Queen Square MS Centre, Department of 
					Neuroinflammation, London, United Kingdom,
                Department 
					of Brain & Behavioural Sciences, University of Pavia, Pavia, 
					Italy,
                Brain 
					Connectivity Centre Research Department, IRCCS Mondino 
					Foundation, Pavia, Italy,
                NMR 
					Research Unit, Queen Square MS Centre, Department of 
					Neuroinflammation, UCL Queen Square Institute of Neurology, 
					Faculty of Brain Sciences, London, United Kingdom,
                Bioxydyn 
					Limited, Manchester, United Kingdom
                Artifacts, MR Fingerprinting
              We propose the use of independent component analysis for the 
					removal of coherent noise sources prior to matching for 
					magnetic resonance fingerprinting (MRF). We tested this 
					technique for the removal of reconstruction artefacts on 
					images acquired with a spiral k-space acquisition to 
					quantify intravascular T
              , 
					extravascular T
              , 
					B
              +
              , 
					cerebral blood volume (ν
              b
              ) 
					and inter-vascular water exchange (1/τ
              ). 
					We demonstrate that removal of coherent noise sources in 
					this way can improve the precision of measurements of 
					parameters.
            3412.
            [Signal gain by reduction of the concomitant phase in double 
				diffusion encoding by means of added oscillating gradients](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3412.html)
            Julian Rauch
              , 
					Frederik B. Laun
              , 
					Dominik Ludwig
              , 
					Maxim Zaitsev
              , 
					Mark E. Ladd
              1,2,5
              , 
					Peter Bachert
              , 
					and Tristan A. Kuder
                Division of Medical Physics in Radiology, German 
					Cancer Research Center (DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany,
                Faculty 
					of Physics and Astronomy, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, 
					Germany,
                University 
					Hospital Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität 
					Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, Germany,
                Medical 
					Physics, Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine, 
					Medical Center University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany,
                Faculty 
					of Medicine, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany
                Artifacts, Artifacts
              Intravoxel dephasing generated by Maxwell or concomitant 
					fields can cause image artifacts like signal voids or 
					falsify the quantification. In this study, an optimization 
					scheme to reduce concomitant field effects in diffusion 
					sequences with single pairs of bipolar gradients on each 
					axis is presented. Oscillating gradients are added onto the 
					original gradient pulses with the aim of reducing the 
					concomitant phase without significant changes in the 
					sequence properties. The proposed method is evaluated in 
					both measurements and simulations, and gives rise to a 
					positive effect on the signal for arbitrary diffusion wave 
					vector pairs.
            3413.
            [Optimised navigator correction of physiological field 
				fluctuations in multi-echo GRE of the lumbar spinal cord at 3T](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3413.html)
            Laura Beghini
              , 
					Gergely David
              2,3
              , 
					Martina D. Liechti
              , 
					Silvan Büeler
              , 
					and S. Johanna Vannesjo
                Department of Physics, Norwegian University of 
					Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway,
                Spinal 
					Cord Injury Center, Balgrist University Hospital, University 
					of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland,
                Dept. 
					of Neuro-Urology, Balgrist University Hospital, University 
					of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland
                Artifacts, Spinal Cord
              Multi-echo GRE sequences acquired in the spinal cord are 
					sensitive to breathing-related field variations, leading to 
					ghosting artifacts. While navigator-based corrections are 
					often used in the brain to account for field variations, 
					standard implementations often fail in the spinal cord due 
					to the close proximity to the lungs. Here, we investigated 
					optimised navigator corrections including a fast Fourier 
					transform combined with region selection encompassing the 
					spinal canal. Besides a visual improvement of image quality, 
					the optimised navigator correction yielded statistically 
					significant improvements in the CNR between WM and CSF and 
					the SNR in the WM.
            3414.
            [RF Interference Manifested Zipper Detection And Removal Using 
				Channel Compression](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3414.html)
            Megha Goel
              , 
					Preetham Shankpal
              , 
					Suresh Emmanuel Joel
              , 
					Rajagopalan Sundareshan
              , 
					and Harsh Agarwal
                GE Healthcare, Bengaluru, India
                Artifacts, Image Reconstruction, 
					Zipper-removal
              Zipper artifacts are commonly seen in MR images due to 
					spurious radio-frequency signals or improper RF-shielding. 
					Zipper-riddled images lose diagnostic value and are usually 
					sent for rescan. Here, we attempt to mitigate zipper 
					artifacts in the post-processing pipeline after scan has 
					been acquired. We do this after channel combination 
					technique has limited zipper appearance to 1-2 
					pseudo-channels, which we detect and remove from 
					channel-combination process. We evaluated this on various 
					brain contrasts and confirm reduction of zipper presence 
					visually in the images. Given that zippers manifest as 
					bright/dark discontinuous lines irrespective of the 
					anatomy/contrast, the method should be generalizable.
            3415.
            [Denoising of 7T MP2RAGE MRI with Preserving the Brain Signal](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3415.html)
            Kwan-Jin Jung
                Biomedical Imaging Center, Beckman Institute, 
					University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, 
					United States
                Artifacts, High-Field MRI, MP2RAGE, 7T
              MP2RAGE requires denoising of the synthesized T1-weighted 
					image. The conventional denoising method is to add a 
					constant in the synthesis that alters the brain signal.  
					This affects brain segmentation. A new denoising method has 
					been developed to denoise it with preserving the brain 
					signal. The new method estimates the bias field from two 
					inversion images and sets the noise floors at the low and 
					high noise levels in proportion to the bias field. The 
					denoise weight is calculated at each voxel using the two 
					noise floors. The proposed denoising method worked reliably 
					with preserving the brain signal.
            3416.
            [Effect of chemical shift displacement on Lipid Composition 
				determination in localized 1H NMR Spectroscopy](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3416.html)
            Julian Mevenkamp
              , 
					Mijke Buitinga
              , 
					Pandichelvam Veeraiah
              , 
					and Vera B. Schrauwen-Hinderling
                Nutrition & Movement Sciences, Maastricht University, 
					Maastricht, Netherlands,
                Radiology 
					& Nuclear Medicine, Maastricht University Medical Center, 
					Maastricht, Netherlands,
                Scannexus, 
					Maastricht, Netherlands,
                Faculty 
					of Health Medicine & Life Sciences, Maastricht University, 
					Maastricht, Netherlands,
                German 
					Diabetes Center, Düsseldorf, Germany
                Artifacts, Spectroscopy, Chemical Shift 
					Displacement
              We showed that implementing prior knowledge about Chemical 
					Shift Displacement Artifacts (CSDA) in localized 
					MR-spectroscopy improves fit quality in the context of 
					hepatic lipid composition measurements (LICO) performed with 
					PRESS. Residuals of fitting PRESS spectra of peanut oil with 
					CSDA prior knowledge show smaller residuals compared to 
					assuming a purely Spin Echo based J-coupling evolution 
					during the echo time. Furthermore, peanut oil LICO measured 
					by PRESS and fitted with CSDA prior knowledge almost matched 
					reference values determined by HR-NMR (PUFA
              HR-NMR
              = 
					23.5%, MUFA
              = 
					52.9%, SFA
              = 
					23.6% vs. PUFA
              CSDA
              = 
					21.57%, MUFA
              = 
					54.4%, SFA
              = 
					24.0%).
            3417.
            [Isotropic sub-mm bSSFP imaging near metal at 0.55T](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3417.html)
            Kübra Keskin
              , 
					Nam G. Lee
              , 
					Jay Acharya
              , 
					and Krishna S. Nayak
                Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of 
					Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United States,
                Biomedical 
					Engineering, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
					CA, United States,
                Radiology, 
					University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, United 
					States
                Artifacts, Artifacts, Metal
              At conventional field strengths, the large magnetic 
					susceptibility difference between metallic implants and 
					surrounding tissues causes severe artifacts often requiring 
					multi-spectral imaging. Recent low-field MRI systems offers 
					new opportunities for imaging adjacent to metallic implants, 
					including balanced SSFP. Here, we utilize phase-cycled 
					bSTAR, a short-TR 3D dual-echo radial bSSFP sequence, for 
					isotropic 3D banding artifact free imaging near metallic 
					implants at 0.55T. We demonstrate diagnostic quality images 
					in volunteers with wrist and spinal hardware with high SNR 
					efficiency compared to TSE-based sequences.
            3418.
          10
            [Demonstration of motion-dependent magnetic field inhomogeneity 
				in the kidneys and its retrospective correction for renal DWI](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3418.html)
            Nima Gilani
              , 
					Artem Mikheev
              , 
					Inge Manuela Brinkmann
              , 
					Dibash Basukala
              , 
					Thomas Benkert
              , 
					Malika Kumbella
              , 
					James S. Babb
              , 
					Hersh Chandarana
              , 
					and Eric E. Sigmund
                Department of Radiology, NYU Langone Health, New 
					York, NY, United States,
                Siemens 
					Medical Solutions USA Inc., New York, NY, United States,
                Siemens 
					Healthcare GmbH, Erlangen, Germany
                Artifacts, Kidney, TOPUP, Field Inhomogeneity
              Echo planar imaging is highly affected by field map 
					inhomogeneity distortion artifact. Field map inhomogeneity 
					has shown to be motion dependent in the kidneys. In the 
					present work, we propose an alternative method for 
					correction of magnetic field inhomogeneity for renal DWI in 
					respiratory-resolved fashion.  Specifically, we collect a 
					series of forward and reverse phase encoded b=0 images to 
					sample kidney motion caused by breathing, map the spatial 
					and respiratory phase dependence of the magnetic field 
					inhomogeneity, and correct each image of free-breathing DWI 
					series according to their respiratory phase.
            3419.
          11
            [Investigation of Susceptibility Gradient Artifacts in EPI at 7T](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3419.html)
            Chan Hong Moon
              , 
					Hoby Hetherington
              , 
					and Jullie W. Pan
              2,4
                MRRC, Department of Radiology, University of 
					Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, United States,
                NEXTGEN, 
					Department of Radiology, University of Missouri, Columbia, 
					MO, United States,
                Resonance 
					Research, Inc., Billerica, MA, United States,
                University 
					of Missouri, Columbia, MO, United States
                Artifacts, High-Field MRI, EPI, 7T, 
					Susceptibility, GRAPPA, Aliasing
              With the development of high-field 7T scanners, interest in 
					high resolution neuroimaging for EPI-based functional and 
					diffusion MRI has increased. However, EPI artifacts at 7T 
					(spatial distortion and signal loss) increase compared to 
					that seen at 3T due to increased B0 inhomogeneity. 
					Furthermore, EPI artifacts become more significant and 
					complicated when parallel imaging is used. As a result, 7T 
					fMRI and DWI suffers from B0 inhomogeneity-induced aliasing 
					as well as the more common EPI artifacts. In this study, the 
					source of B0 inhomogeneity artifact in parallel imaging was 
					investigated and methods to reduce these artifacts are 
					proposed/tested at 7T.
            3420.
          12
            [Spatiotemporal B0 correction in Oscillating Steady State Imaging 
				(OSSI) fMRI using Free Induction Decay Navigators (FIDnavs)](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3420.html)
            Mariama Salifu
              , 
					Douglas Noll
              , 
					and Melissa Haskell
                Biomedical Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann 
					Arbor, MI, United States,
                Electrical 
					Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United 
					States,
                Hyperfine 
					Research, Guilford, CT, United States
                Artifacts, Shims, B0 correction
              Temporal field variations (e.g., physiological noise) in 
					oscillating steady state imaging (OSSI) not only increases 
					signal fluctuations as seen in GRE, but also alters signal 
					characteristics that lead to inconsistent k-space 
					acquisitions from  TR to TR.  This effectively reduces the 
					overall functional contrast and temporal signal to noise 
					ratio (tSNR). Here, we utilized free induction decay (FID) 
					signal phase to estimate up to the first-order field 
					inhomogeneity coefficients for prospective spatiotemporal B
              0
              field 
					correction in OSSI.
            3421.
          13
            [EPI Nyquist Ghost Correction by Iteratively Enforcing Structural 
				Low Rankness](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3421.html)
            Yilong Liu
              , 
					Mengye Lyu
              , 
					Yunlin Zhao
              , 
					Linfang Xiao
              , 
					and Ed X. Wu
              4,5
                Guangdong-Hongkong-Macau Institute of CNS 
					Regeneration, Key Laboratory of CNS Regeneration (Ministry 
					of Education), Jinan University, Guangzhou, China,
                College 
					of Health Science and Environmental Engineering, Shenzhen 
					Technology University, Shenzhen, China,
                Hangzhou 
					Weiying Medical Technology Co., Ltd, Hangzhou, China,
                Laboratory 
					of Biomedical Imaging and Signal Processing, The University 
					of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China,
                Department 
					of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, The University of 
					Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China
                Artifacts, Artifacts, EPI, Nyquist ghost 
					correction
              This study presents a Nyquist ghost correction method by 
					iteratively enforcing low rankness of the block-wise Hankel 
					matrix and updating the 1D linear model for phase 
					correction. The proposed method was evaluated with 
					multi-shot EPI data at both ultra-high field (7T) and low 
					field (0.3T). Compared with existing SVD-based method, the 
					proposed method requires much fewer iterations to achieve 
					similar performance, provides a computationally efficient 
					and robust solution to EPI Nyquist ghost correction.
            3422.
          14
            [Preclinical spiral imaging with a high-performance gradient 
				insert: a comparison of trajectory correction methods](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3422.html)
            Hannah Scholten
              , 
					Tobias Wech
              , 
					Sascha Köhler
              , 
					and Jürgen E. Schneider
                Department of Diagnostic and Interventional 
					Radiology, University Hospital Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany,
                Bruker 
					BioSpin MRI GmbH, Ettlingen, Germany,
                Leeds 
					Institute of Cardiovascular and Metabolic Medicine, 
					University of Leeds, Leeds, United Kingdom
                Artifacts, System Imperfections: Measurement & 
					Correction, GIRF, GSTF, LTI
              We compared three different trajectory correction methods in 
					spiral phantom images on a preclinical 7T scanner with a 
					high-performance gradient insert. The first was an isotropic 
					delay-correction, the second a gradient correction based on 
					the gradient system transfer function (GSTF), and the third 
					employed measured trajectories. In both an axial and a 
					double-oblique slice, the measured trajectory resulted in 
					the best image quality, while the delay-corrected images 
					suffered from halo effects and signal bleeding. The 
					GSTF-corrected images only had minor remaining artifacts, 
					stemming from trajectory deviations due to non-linearities 
					in the gradient chain.
            3423.
          15
            [Cardiac T1 and T2 Mapping: The Importance of Rest Periods in 
				Quantitative Tissue Property Mapping](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3423.html)
            Seth Garrett, B.S.
              , 
					Jesse Hamilton, Ph.D.
              , 
					and Nicole Seiberlich, Ph.D.
                Michigan Medicine- Department of Radiology, 
					University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, United States
                Artifacts, Cardiovascular
              The aim of this study is to assess whether the presence of 
					rest periods in the form of breathhold commands affects T1 
					and T2 values measured in the myocardium using both 
					clinically standard pulse sequences and cardiac Magnetic 
					Resonance Fingerprinting (MRF).  When mapping data are 
					collected immediately following cine acquisitions, T1 maps 
					from both MOLLI and MRF show significant errors, although T2 
					maps from both T2-prepared bSSFP and MRF are unaffected by 
					the absence of a pause between sequences.
            3424.
          16
            [Predicting MR Image Quality from Breathing Patterns](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3424.html)
            Soham S Vasanawala
              and 
					John M Pauly
                Electrical Engineering, Stanford University, 
					Stanford, CA, United States
                Artifacts, Motion Correction, abdomen, 
					respiration
              Motion, particularly from breathing, compromises the quality 
					of magnetic resonance images. In this work, we hypothesize 
					that detected breathing patterns can be utilized to predict 
					whether adequate MR image quality will be obtained. With a 
					K-means clustering algorithm, 9 in 10 forty-second breathing 
					waveforms were correctly predicted as either resulting in a 
					high or low image quality image; this finding can save time 
					from unnecessary scans. Other models achieved similar 
					results as K-means clusterings.
            3425.
          17
            [Clinical evaluation of k-space correlation informed motion 
				artifact detection in segmented multi-slice MRI](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3425.html)
            Ikbeom Jang
              , 
					Malte Hoffmann
              , 
					Nalini Singh
              , 
					Yael Balbastre
              , 
					Lina Chen
              , 
					Marcio Aloisio Bezerra Cavalcanti Rockenbach
              , 
					Adrian Dalca
              1,2,3
              , 
					Iman Aganj
              , 
					Jayashree Kalpathy-Cramer
              , 
					Bruce Fischl
              1,2,3,4
              , 
					and Robert Frost
                Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General 
					Hospital, Boston, MA, United States,
                Department 
					of Radiology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United 
					States,
                Computer 
					Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, 
					Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, United 
					States,
                Harvard-MIT 
					Health Sciences and Technology, Massachusetts Institute of 
					Technology, Cambridge, MA, United States,
                Data 
					Science Office, Mass General Brigham, Boston, MA, United 
					States
                Artifacts, Artifacts, Motion artifact, Image 
					Quality, Neuroimaging
              Motion artifacts can negatively impact diagnosis, patient 
					experience, and radiology workflow especially when a patient 
					recall is required. Detecting motion artifacts while the 
					patient is still in the scanner could potentially improve 
					workflow and reduce costs by enabling immediate corrective 
					action. We demonstrate in a clinical k-space dataset that 
					using cross-correlation between adjacent phase-encoding 
					lines can detect motion artifacts directly from raw k-space 
					in multi-shot multi-slice scans. We train a split-attention 
					residual network to examine the performance in predicting 
					motion artifact severity. The network is trained on 
					simulated data and tested on real clinical data.
            3426.
          18
            [Large-scale simulation of rigid head motion artifacts in whole 
				brain MRI data and the impact on automatic cortical segmentation](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3426.html)
            Hampus Olsson
              , 
					Jason Michael Millward
              , 
					Ludger Starke
              , 
					Tobias Klein
              , 
					Wenli Xu
              , 
					Sabrina Klix
              , 
					Christoph Lippert
              , 
					Thoralf Niendorf
              , 
					and Sonia Waiczies
                Berlin Ultrahigh Field Facility (B.U.F.F.), Max 
					Delbrück Center for Molecular Medicine in the Helmholtz 
					Association, Berlin, Germany,
                Experimental 
					and Clinical Research Center, a joint cooperation between 
					the Charitë Medical Faculty and the Max Delbrück Center for 
					Molecular Medicine in the Helmholtz Association, Berlin, 
					Germany,
                Digital 
					Health & Machine Learning Research Group, Hasso Plattnet 
					Institut for Digital Engineering, Potsdam, Germany,
                Hasso 
					Plattner Institute for Digital Health at Mount Sinai, Icahn 
					School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United 
					States
                MRI datasets from 
					epidemiological studies such as the German National Cohort 
					(GNC) are increasingly used in machine learning. These 
					datasets show a lower prevalence of motion artifacts than 
					encountered in clinical practice. We simulated realistic 
					motion artifacts caused by rigid head motion on the GNC MR 
					data (50 subjects) by modifying the TorchIO data 
					augmentation framework. Five levels of artifact severity 
					were simulated. We benchmarked our results to empirical 
					measurements using the standard GNC MPRAGE imaging protocol. 
					The robustness to motion of FreeSurfer and SynthSeg for 
					cortical segmentation was investigated, indicating an 
					improved performance using SynthSeg.
            3427.
          19
            [Streak Artifact Reduction using Convolutional Neural Network: 
				Clinical Feasibility Study in Liver MR Imaging](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3427.html)
            Satoshi Funayama
              , 
					Shintaro Ichikawa
              , 
					Yukichi Tanahashi
              , 
					Takanobu Ikeda
              , 
					Koh Kubota
              , 
					Masaya Kutsuna
              , 
					and Satoshi Goshima
                Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, Hamamatsu, 
					Japan
                Artifacts, Machine Learning/Artificial 
					Intelligence, Liver, Motion Correction
              Radial sampling enables free free-breathing abdominal MR 
					imaging. Meanwhile, while it suffers from streak artifacts. 
					We propose streak artifact reduction using convolutional 
					neural network (SARC) which utilize Hough domain. In Hough 
					domain, a streak becomes like a dot which is more localized 
					compared with image domain. The network was trained in 
					end-to-end manner. The SARC was show better image quality in 
					objective image quality metrics and visual evaluation by a 
					radiologist. SARC showed feasibility for clinical MR 
					imaging.
            3428.
          20
            [GDCNet: deep learning model for self-consistent geometric 
				distortion correction of EPI images without a field map](https://cds.ismrm.org/protected/23MPresentations/abstracts/3428.html)
            Marina Manso Jimeno
              , 
					John Thomas Vaughan
              , 
					and Sairam Geethanath
                Department of Biomedical Engineering, Columbia 
					University, New York, NY, United States,
                Columbia 
					Magnetic Resonance Research Center, Columbia University, New 
					York, NY, United States,
                The 
					Biomedical Engineering Institute (Department of Diagnostic, 
					Molecular and Interventional Radiology), Icahn School of 
					Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY, United States
                Artifacts, fMRI, Geometrid Distortion, B0 
					inhomogeneity
              GDCNet is a “self-consistent” deep learning (DL) model for 
					distortion correction of EPI fMRI images and field map 
					estimation. It only requires the EPI images for correction, 
					saving acquisition time and avoiding motion-related 
					correction errors. The two supervised U-Nets for forward 
					modelling and distortion correction have been tested in 
					silico and in vivo on a publicly-available and a 
					prospectively-acquired dataset. The in silico models 
					demonstrated generalization capabilities and achieved a mean 
					RMSE of 2.56 x10
              -2
              as 
					self-conistency metric. Inference in vivo showed modest 
					correction in the prefrontal cortex and similar estimated 
					field map compared to the acquired ground truth.
      The International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education to provide continuing medical education for physicians.